AmericanCouncilforanEnergyEfficientEconomy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (May 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Founded
1980
Chair
Carl Blumstein
Exec. Director
Steven Nadel
Headquarters
Washington, DC, USA
Slogan
"Promoting economic prosperity, energy security, and environmental protection."
Website
www.aceee.org
The American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, or ACEEE, is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organization. Founded in 1980, ACEEE's mission is to act as a catalyst to advance energy efficiency policies, programs, technologies, investments, and behaviors in order to help achieve greater economic prosperity, energy security, and environmental protection.
ACEEE promotes energy efficiency by conducting technical and policy analyses; advising policymakers and program managers; and working collaboratively with businesses, government officials, public interest groups, and other organizations. It convenes conferences and workshops, primarily for energy efficiency professionals, and produces reports, books, conference proceedings, and media outreach.[1]
ACEEE employs more than 35 Washington, D.C.-based employees, and holds field offices in Delaware, Michigan, Washington, and Wisconsin. The organization's primary focuses are on end-use efficiency in industry, buildings, utilities, and transportation; economic analysis and human behavior; and state and national policy.
Contents
1 Federal and State Energy Policy
1.1 Federal Policy
1.2 State Policy
2 Research and Analysis
3 Outreach
3.1 Conferences
3.2 Publications
3.3 The Web
3.4 Ally Program
4 Funding
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
Federal and State Energy Policy[edit]
Federal Policy[edit]
ACEEE has worked on federal energy policy since the 1980s. The organization played central roles in the development of the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987, energy efficiency provisions in the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and the Energy Policy Act of 2005, and the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. It also played a role in the development of energy efficiency sections in recent farm bills. Many of these provisions were developed in cooperation with interested business and received bipartisan support.
ACEEE staff testify before Congress and work closely with Congressional staff in both parties to help shape new initiatives and analyze the impacts of energy and climate policy proposals. They weigh in on the federal budget process, promoting and increasing funding for what they deem the most effective energy efficiency programs.
The organization also works with federal agencies such as the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy on programs and policies, and participates in formal rulemakings on energy efficiency issues. Most of ACEEE's federal policy work involves research and education; however, they do a limited amount of lobbying using unrestricted funds.
They supported the EPS Service Parts Act of 2014 (H.R. 5057; 113th Congress), a bill that would exempt certain external power supplies from complying with standards set forth in a final rule published by the United States Department of Energy in February 2014.[2][3] The United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce describes the bill as a bill that "provides regulatory relief by making a simple technical correction to the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act to exempt certain power supply (EPS) service and spare parts from federal efficiency standards."[4]
State Policy[edit]
At the state level, ACEEE works closely with public officials and local energy efficiency advocates, providing advice, analysis, and technical support. In order to maximize its impact, the organization concentrates its efforts on large states that are poised to make major decisions on energy efficiency policy issues.[5] For example, in 2007 and 2008, it emphasized work in Florida, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Virginia. All of these states passed significant energy efficiency legislation, with additional legislation and regulations likely in some of them.
ACEEE also works on state policies that can potentially be adopted at the national level. For example, staff have worked with several states to develop state appliance and equipment efficiency standards, which have subsequently been adopted by Congress.
Research and Analysis[edit]
ACEEE devotes much of its resources to research and analysis in order to discern the best technical, program, and policy practices that promote efficient energy use, and to define the magnitude of benefits of energy efficiency. Research staff survey market trends and activities, analyze technical and economic potential for energy efficiency, seek to understand consumer energy decisions, and assess the potential for regulations, policies, and programs to achieve energy savings. ACEEE's research programs include:
Buildings and equipment - ACEEE's oldest research program analyzes opportunities for energy efficiency in appliances and equipment; building design, construction, and operation; and programs and policies that encourage consumers to make energy-efficient product choices.
Utilities - Serves as the principal documenter and reviewer of publicly funded energy efficiency programs and supporting policies, preparing regular surveys of best practices and supporting implementers and regulators in designing the next generation of programs and policies.
Transportation - Tracks vehicle technology and estimates the potential for future energy efficiency. In addition, the program explores technologies and policies that encourage changes in personal and freight transportation markets to further reduce energy use.
Industry - Applies unique experience in energy efficiency for the manufacturing sector (including distributed energy resources such as combined heat and power), and assesses technologies, practices, programs, and policies to achieve increased energy efficiency in manufacturing.
Agriculture - Addresses the unique energy efficiency program and policy needs of farms and rural communities through assessment of energy use patterns, and opportunities for more energy efficiency practices and technologies.
Economic analysis - Encourages the use of sound economic modeling practices, studies the impacts of energy policies on the economy, and projects the economic benefits of energy efficiency technologies, practices, and policies.
State analysis - Cross-program effort that combines expertise from other research programs to assess state energy policies, analyze the potential for energy efficiency at the state level, and collect key resources to support state policymakers, program implementers, and efficiency advocates.
International - Works with colleagues from transitional economies to adapt technology, program, and policy experiences from the United States to these economies.
Outreach[edit]
ACEEE attempts to reach out to and inform diverse audiences in a variety of ways:
Conferences[edit]
ACEEE holds several conferences each year that aim to bring together disparate stakeholders to focus on multiple aspects of energy efficiency and the role it plays in addressing critical issues such as climate change, energy resources, utility structure and regulation, and energy use in buildings, industry, and agriculture. Recent conferences include:
2013 Summer Study on Energy Efficiency in Industry
2012 Summer Study on Energy Efficiency in Buildings
Hot Water Forum: Water Heating, Distribution, and Use Efficiency
Energy Efficiency Finance Forum
National Symposium on Market Transformation
Forum on Energy Efficiency and Agriculture
Behavior, Energy, and Climate Change Conference (BECC)
National Conference on Energy Efficiency as a Resource
Publications[edit]
ACEEE provides research and technical analysis of current energy efficiency policies and practices, as well as forecasting future trends. These publications include research reports, consumer books, white papers, legislative testimony, and conference proceedings. Major recent ACEEE reports include:
Energizing Virginia: Efficiency First
The Size of the U.S. Energy Efficiency Market: Generating a More Complete Picture
Compendium of Champions: Chronicling Exemplary Energy Efficiency Programs from Across the U.S.
The 2008 State Energy Efficiency Scorecard
Information and Communication Technologies: The Power of Productivity
Assessment of the House Renewable Electricity Standard and Expanded Clean Energy Scenarios
The Web[edit]
ACEEE shares its work online by providing publications and conference presentations on the internet. While not a consumer-focused organization, ACEEE has several web resources devoted to educating consumers about making wise energy efficiency choices relating to their homes and their vehicles, through:
Consumer Guide Online (based on Consumer Guide to Home Energy Savings)
GreenerCars.org (Online presence of ACEEE's Green Book: The Environmental Guide to Cars and Trucks)
Ally Program[edit]
ACEEE convenes primary stakeholders in discussions and networking opportunities through policy briefings, webinars covering recent published research and analysis, and one-to-one interaction with staff and Board members
Funding[edit]
ACEEE's sources of funding from 2006 to 2007 were broken down as follows:
Foundations (34%)
Federal and state grants (7%)
Specific contract work (21%)
Conferences and publications (34%)
Contributions and other (4%)
See also[edit]
Efficient energy use
Energy policy of the United States
Energy conservation in the United States
John A. "Skip" Laitner
References[edit]
^ GuideStar Organization Details
^ "CBO - H.R. 5057". Congressional Budget Office. Retrieved 9 September 2014.
^ Hankin, Christopher (15 July 2014). "House Energy & Commerce Committee passes bipartisan regulatory relief for external power supplies". Information Technology Industry Council. Retrieved 10 September 2014.
^ "Committee to Build on #RecordOfSuccess with Nine Bills On the House Floor This Week". House Energy and Commerce Committee. 8 September 2014. Retrieved 10 September 2014.
^ Western Area Power Association: Website of the Month
External links[edit]
ACEEE
Appliance Standards Awareness Project
ACEEE's Green Book
News
Reuters
New York Times
Chicago Tribune
NPR
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1221
Cached time: 20161118060932
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.076 seconds
Real time usage: 0.103 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 317/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 9186/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 8/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 6/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.031/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.87 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
77.221
1 - -total
48.90%
37.765
1 - Template:Reflist
46.96%
36.266
1 - Template:More_footnotes
41.03%
31.687
3 - Template:Cite_web
31.03%
23.960
1 - Template:Ambox
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:22565770-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118060932 and revision id 706606997
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=American_Council_for_an_Energy-Efficient_Economy&oldid=706606997"
Categories: Non-profit organizations based in Washington, D.C.Environmental organizations based in the United StatesInternational energy organizationsEnergy conservation in the United StatesHidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from May 2012All articles lacking in-text citations