Behaviourchange
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Behaviour change)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}See also: Behavioural change theories
Behavior change is a central objective in public health interventions,[1] with an increased focus on prevention prior to onset of disease.[2] This is particularly important in low and middle income countries, where efficiency of health spending and costs and benefits of health interventions has come under increased scrutiny in recent decades.[3] Behavior change in public health is also known as Social and Behavior Change Communication (SBCC).[4]
Contents
1 Background
1.1 Theories
2 Tools
2.1 Behavior change communication (BCC)
3 Examples
4 See also
5 References
Background[edit]
Many health conditions are caused by risk behaviors, such as problem drinking, substance use, smoking, reckless driving, overeating, or unprotected sexual intercourse. The key question in health behavior research is how to predict and modify the adoption and maintenance of health behaviors. Fortunately, human beings have, in principle, control over their conduct. Health-compromising behaviors can be eliminated by self-regulatory efforts, and health-enhancing behaviors can be adopted instead, such as physical exercise, weight control, preventive nutrition, dental hygiene, condom use, or accident prevention. Health behavior change refers to the motivational, volitional, and actional processes of abandoning such health-compromising behaviors in favor of adopting and maintaining health-enhancing behaviors.[5][6][7]
Behavior change programs, which have evolved over time, encompass a broad range of activities and approaches, which focus on the individual, community, and environmental influences on behavior. Behavior change, a relatively recent public health-related term, should not be confused with behavior modification, a term with specific meaning in a clinical psychiatry setting.
One emerging concept in the American health system is that of small, manageable changes. It is not necessary to make sweeping, drastic alterations to one's whole lifestyle in order to see benefit; something is better than nothing. Dietary and exercise contexts, in particular show the benefit of moderate, slow changes.[8]
Theories[edit]
Behavior change programs tend to focus on a few behavioral change theories which gained ground in the 1980s. These theories share a major commonality in defining individual actions as the locus of change. Behavior change programs that are usually focused on activities that help a person or a community to reflect upon their risk behaviors and change them to reduce their risk and vulnerability are known as interventions. Examples include: "Transtheoretical (Stages of Change) Model of Behavior Change", "theory of reasoned action", "health belief model", "theory of planned behavior",[9] diffusion of innovation",[10] and the health action process approach.
Tools[edit]
Care groups are groups of 10-15 volunteer, community-based health educators who regularly meet together.
Barrier Analysis is a rapid assessment tool used in behavior change projects to identify behavioral determinants.
Community-led total sanitation is a behaviour change tool used in the sanitation sector for mainly rural settings in developing countries with the aim to stop open defecation. The method uses shame, disgust and to some extent peer pressure which leads to the "spontaneous" construction and long-term use of toilets after an initial triggering process has taken place.
Behavior change communication (BCC)[edit]
Main article: Behavior change communication
Behavior change communication, or BCC, is an approach to behavior change focused on communication. It is also known as Social and Behavior Change Communication, or SBCC. The assumptions is that through communication of some kind, individuals and communities can somehow be persuaded to behave in ways that will make their lives safer and healthier. BCC was first employed in HIV and TB prevention projects.[11][12] More recently, its ambit has grown to encompass any communication activity whose goal is to help individuals and communities select and practice behavior that will positively impact their health, such as immunization, cervical cancer check up, employing single-use syringes, etc.[citation needed]
Examples[edit]
Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs specializes in health-related BCC (behavior change communication) programs, primarily in developing countries. It includes programs in reproductive health and family planning, malaria, and HIV/AIDS.[13]
Development Media International uses mass media to promote healthy behaviors in Burkina Faso, DRC and Mozambique.[14]
Young 1ove provides information to youth to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in Botswana.[15]
See also[edit]
Behavior change methods
Global Handwashing Day
References[edit]
^ WHO 2002: "World Health Report 2002 - Reducing Risks, Promoting Healthy Life". Retrieved February 2015.
^ US Center for Disease Control and Prevention. "National Prevention Strategy". Retrieved February 2015.
^ Jamison DT, Breman JG, Measham AR, et al., (eds) (2006) Disease Control Priorities in Developing Countries. 2nd edition Chapter 2: Intervention Cost-Effectiveness Retrieved February 2015.
^ "Why Social and Behavior Change Communication? - Health Communication Capacity Collaborative - Social and Behavior Change Communication". Health Communication Capacity Collaborative - Social and Behavior Change Communication. Retrieved 2016-06-17.
^ "SAID project". Private Sector Partnerships. SAID project focused on increasing the private sector's role in providing high-quality health products and services in developing countries.
^ "Barrier Analysis website". Barrier Analysis website.
^ "Designing for Behavior Change Curriculum". Designing for Behavior Change Curriculum.
^ Hill, James (2009). "Can a small-changes approach help address the obesity epidemic? A report of the Joint Task Force of the American Society for Nutrition, Institute of Food Technologists, and International Food Information Council" (PDF). American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 89 (2): 477484. doi:10.3945/ajcn.2008.26566. PMID19088151.
^ Theory of Planned Behavior
^ Diffusion of Innovation
^ "Brazil: Behavior Change Communication for More Effective Tuberculosis Control". John Snow Inc. 20102011. Retrieved 2 August 2016. CS1 maint: Date format (link)
^ "Behaviour Change Communication (BCC)for HIV/AIDS a Strategic Framework" (PDF). HIVPolicy.org. September 2002. Retrieved 2 August 2016.
^ "Johns Hopkins Center for Communication Programs".
^ "DMI - Where we work".
^ "Evidence Action Beta".
v
t
e
Public health
General
Auxology
Biological hazard
Chief Medical Officer
Cultural competence
Deviance
Environmental health
Euthenics
Genomics
Globalization and disease
Health economics
Health literacy
Health policy
Health system
Health care reform
Public health law
Maternal health
Medical anthropology
Medical sociology
Mental health
Pharmaceutical policy
Public health laboratory
Reproductive health
Social psychology
Sociology of health and illness
Tropical disease
Preventive healthcare
Behavior change (public health)
Family planning
Health promotion
Human nutrition
Hygiene
Food safety
Hand washing
Infection control
Oral hygiene
Occupational safety and health
Human factors and ergonomics
Hygiene
Injury prevention
Medicine
Nursing
Patient safety
Organization
Pharmacovigilance
Safe sex
Sanitation
Fecal-oral transmission
Open defecation
Sanitary sewer
Waterborne diseases
Smoking cessation
Vaccination
Vector control
Population health
Biostatistics
Child mortality
Community health
Epidemiology
Global health
Health impact assessment
Health system
Infant mortality
Open-source healthcare software
Public health informatics
Social determinants of health
Health equity
Race and health
Social medicine
Biological and
epidemiological statistics
Case-control study
Randomized controlled trial
Relative risk
Statistical hypothesis testing
Analysis of variance (ANOVA)
Regression analysis
ROC curve
Student's t-test
Z-test
Statistical software
Infectious and epidemic
disease prevention
Epidemics
List
Notifiable diseases
List
Public health surveillance
Disease surveillance
Quarantine
Sexually transmitted infection
Tropical disease
Vaccine trial
Food hygiene and
safety management
Food
Additive
Chemistry
Engineering
Microbiology
Processing
Safety
Safety scandals
Genetically modified food
Good agricultural practice
Good manufacturing practice
HACCP
ISO 22000
Health behavioral
sciences
Diffusion of innovations
Health belief model
Health communication
Health psychology
Positive deviance
PRECEDE-PROCEED model
Social cognitive theory
Social norms approach
Theory of planned behavior
Transtheoretical model
Organizations,
education
and history
Organizations
Europe
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control
Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety
India
Ministry of Health and Family Welfare
U.S.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
City and county health departments
Council on Education for Public Health
Public Health Service
World Health Organization
World Toilet Organization
Education
Health education
Higher education
Bachelor of Science in Public Health
Professional degrees of public health
Schools of public health
History
Sara Josephine Baker
Samuel Jay Crumbine
Carl Rogers Darnall
Joseph Lister
Margaret Sanger
John Snow
Typhoid Mary
Germ theory of disease
Social hygiene movement
Category
Commons
WikiProject
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1573182-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161109195519 and revision id 732781375
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Behavior_change_(public_health)&oldid=732781375"
Categories: Human behaviorPublic healthHidden categories: CS1 maint: Date formatAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2015