CenterforSustainableEnergyFarming
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
It has been suggested that this article be merged into Global Clean Energy Holdings. (Discuss) Proposed since July 2015.
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article contains content that is written like an advertisement. Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral point of view. (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's general notability guideline. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources:"Center for Sustainable Energy Farming"news newspapers books scholar JSTOR free images (October 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The Center for Sustainable Energy Farming, established in late 2010 by Global Clean Energy Holdings, is a non-profit research center dedicated to establishing and promoting the development of resilient and sustainable communities, fueled by socially responsible clean energy produced from Jatropha.
Contents
1 Mission
2 Current research
3 References
4 External links
Mission[edit]
The Centers mission is to perform plant science research in genetics, breeding and horticulture, and further develop technologies to allow for the economic commercialization and sustainability of energy farms. The Center provides a common research platform to foster communication and cooperation among various national and international research institutions and organizations in the biofuel sector. From a global economics, environmental and social perspective, this collaboration will contribute to the development of more productive energy farms capable of supplying large quantities of plant-based (non-food) oils to replace the use of fossil fuels. This initiative has the potential to create tens of thousands of jobs in the agri-business and alternative energy industries, expand the use of non-productive land, generate local business-to-business opportunities, reduce global dependency on oil reserves, and contribute to the reduction of carbon emissions.[1]
Current research[edit]
The Center is focused on developing high-yielding commercial varieties of Jatropha curcas through interdisciplinary research cooperation across multiple scientific disciplines.[2] The center has a goal of improving yields 300 percent and reducing inputs by 30 percent within 10 years.
References[edit]
^ Biodiesel Magazine
^ Biodiesel Magazine
External links[edit]
Global Clean Energy Holdings
Center For Sustainable Energy Farming
v
t
e
Bioenergy
Biofuels
Alcohol
Algae fuel
Bagasse
Babassu oil
Biobutanol
Biodiesel
Biogas
Biogasoline
Corn stover
Ethanol
cellulosic
mixtures
Methanol
Stover
Corn stover
Straw
Cooking oil
Vegetable oil
Water hyacinth
Wood gas
Energy from
foodstock
Barley
Cassava
Grape
Hemp
Maize
Oat
Palm oil
Potato
Rapeseed
Rice
Sorghum bicolor
Soybean
Sugarcane
Sugar beet
Sunflower
Wheat
Yam
Camelina sativa
Non-food
energy crops
Arundo
Big bluestem
Camelina
Chinese tallow
Duckweed
Jatropha curcas
Millettia pinnata
Miscanthus giganteus
Switchgrass
Wood fuel
Technology
BECCS
Bioconversion
Biomass heating systems
Biorefinery
FischerTropsch process
Industrial biotechnology
Pellets
mill
stove
Thermal depolymerization
Concepts
Cellulosic ethanol commercialization
Energy content of biofuel
Energy crop
Energy forestry
EROEI
Food vs. fuel
Issues
Sustainable biofuel
This article about renewable energy is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
v
t
e
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:37199097-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161109035611 and revision id 671297291
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Center_for_Sustainable_Energy_Farming&oldid=671297291"
Categories: Energy conservationInternational developmentOrganizations established in 2010Sustainable energyRenewable energy stubsHidden categories: Articles to be merged from July 2015All articles to be mergedArticles needing additional references from October 2012All articles needing additional referencesArticles with a promotional tone from October 2012All articles with a promotional toneArticles with topics of unclear notability from October 2012All articles with topics of unclear notabilityAll stub articles