Chemicalsynthesis
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article needs attention from an expert in Chemistry. The specific problem is: The article is essentially an unsourced essay of lowest standard that is in defiance of WP:VERIFY and so fails at being encyclopedic. See the talk page for details. WikiProject Chemistry (or its Portal) may be able to help recruit an expert. (March 2016)
This article is written like a personal reflection or opinion essay that states a Wikipedia editor's personal feelings about a topic. Please help improve it by rewriting it in an encyclopedic style. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article's factual accuracy is disputed. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced. See the relevant discussion on the talk page. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article cites its sources but does not provide page references. You can help to improve it by introducing citations that are more precise. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Chemical synthesis is a purposeful execution of chemical reactions to obtain a product, or several products. [1] This happens by physical and chemical manipulations usually involving one or more reactions. In modern laboratory usage, this tends to imply that the process is reproducible, reliable, and established to work in multiple laboratories.
Contents
1 Introduction
2 Strategies
3 Organic synthesis
4 Inorganic synthesis
4.1 Tradition inorganic preparations
4.2 Organometallic synthesis
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
Introduction[edit]
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This section's factual accuracy is disputed. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced. See the relevant discussion on the talk page. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This section contains information of unclear or questionable importance or relevance to the article's subject matter. Please help improve this section by clarifying or removing superfluous information. If importance cannot be established, the section is likely to be moved to another article, pseudo-redirected, or removed.
Find sources:"Chemical synthesis"news newspapers books scholar JSTOR free images (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This section needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
A chemical synthesissynthesis, in its present meaning originating with chemist Hermann Kolbe[citation needed]begins with the careful selection of the target, based on the relationship of possible targets of chemical, functional, or therapeutic interest to the broader aims of the research effort, whether industrial or academic; various further practical concerns come into play, including manpower available for the campaign, as well as availability of material resources (necessary equipment, starting materials and bulk chemicals, etc.), and along with these, budget for these practical necessities.[citation needed] For instance, a prior developed reaction methodology may highlight particular man-made or natural compounds that would serve the purposes of the effort, in highlighting the breadth of the new methodology; alternatively, grant or unit budgetary or timeline constraints may necessitate aiming for a simpler member of a family of complex natural products,[citation needed] or practical constraints such as the lack of suitable starting materials may necessitate a semi-synthesis over a total synthesis,[citation needed] etc. Once the target or targets are established, the next critical phase begins, that of synthetic design, typically in modern efforts, in the area of organic synthesis, using retrosynthetic analysis, as championed by E.J. Corey and others.[citation needed]
An eventual step is selection of compounds that are known as reagents or reactants.[clarification needed] Various reaction types can be applied to these to synthesize the product, or an intermediate product.[clarification needed] This requires mixing the compounds in a reaction vessel such as a chemical reactor or a simple round-bottom flask.[clarification needed] Many reactions require some form of work-up procedure before the final product is isolated.[1][pageneeded] The isolation (purification) of the product then proceeds via a variety of methods.[clarification needed]
The amount of product in a chemical synthesis is the reaction yield.[dubious  discuss] Typically, chemical yields are expressed as a weight in grams (in a laboratory setting)[dubious  discuss] or as a percentage of the total theoretical quantity of product that could be produced. A side reaction is an unwanted chemical reaction taking place that diminishes the yield of the desired product.[citation needed]
Strategies[edit]
This section's factual accuracy is disputed. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced. See the relevant discussion on the talk page. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This section is missing information about nearly all subjects remotely expected of a discussion of synthetic strategy in the 21st century. Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page. (March 2016)
Many strategies exist in chemical synthesis that go beyond converting reactant A to reaction product B in a single step. In multistep synthesis, a chemical compound is synthesised though a series of individual chemical reactions, each with their own work-up. [2][full citation needed] For example, a laboratory synthesis of paracetamol can consist of three individual synthetic steps. In cascade reactions multiple chemical transformations take place within a single reactant, in multi-component reactions up to 11 different reactants form a single reaction product and in a telescopic synthesis one reactant goes through multiple transformations without isolation of intermediates.
Organic synthesis[edit]
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
Main article: Organic synthesis
This section's factual accuracy is disputed. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are reliably sourced. See the relevant discussion on the talk page. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This section is missing information about nearly all subjects remotely expected of a discussion of synthetic strategy in the 21st century. Please expand the section to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page. (March 2016)
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Organic synthesis is a special branch of chemical synthesis dealing with the synthesis of organic compounds. In the total synthesis of a complex product it may take multiple steps to synthesize the product of interest, and inordinate amounts of time. Skill in organic synthesis is prized among chemists and the synthesis of exceptionally valuable or difficult compounds has won chemists such as Robert Burns Woodward the Nobel Prize for Chemistry. If a chemical synthesis starts from basic laboratory compounds and yields something new, it is a purely synthetic process. If it starts from a product isolated from plants or animals and then proceeds to new compounds, the synthesis is described as a semisynthetic process.
Inorganic synthesis[edit]
This section needs expansion with: a two paragraph description, each, based on good secondary sources (not undergraduate texts, which, by WP:VERIFY, etc., are tertiary) of the scope, targets and other aims, and methods, of the two subsections appearing. You can help by adding to it. (March 2016)
Tradition inorganic preparations[edit]
Organometallic synthesis[edit]
See also[edit]
Beilstein database
Chemical engineering
Electrosynthesis
Methods in Organic Synthesis
Organic synthesis
Peptide synthesis
Total synthesis
References[edit]
^ a b Vogel, A.I., Tatchell, A.R., Furnis, B.S., Hannaford, A.J. and P.W.G. Smith. Vogel's Textbook of Practical Organic Chemistry, 5th Edition. Prentice Hall, 1996. ISBN 0-582-46236-3.[pageneeded]
^ Advanced Organic Chemistry Part B: Reactions and Synthesis Francis A. Carey,Richard J. Sundberg Springer 2013.[full citation needed]
External links[edit]
The Organic Synthesis Archive
Natural product syntheses
v
t
e
Chemical synthesis
Types
Artificial gene synthesis
Biomimetic synthesis
Bioretrosynthesis
Biosynthesis
Convergent synthesis
Custom peptide synthesis
Direct process
Divergent synthesis
Electrosynthesis
Enantioselective synthesis
Fully automated synthesis
Hydrothermal synthesis
LASiS
Mechanosynthesis
One-pot synthesis
Organic synthesis
Peptide synthesis
Radiosynthesis
Semisynthesis
Solid-phase synthesis
Solvothermal synthesis
Total synthesis
Volume combustion synthesis
See also
Chemical synthesis
Category:Chemical synthesis
Authority control
GND: 4133806-6
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:85029-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161029032413 and revision id 737286143
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chemical_synthesis&oldid=737286143"
Categories: Chemical synthesisChemistryHidden categories: Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2016Articles needing more detailed referencesArticles needing expert attention from March 2016All articles needing expert attentionChemistry articles needing expert attentionWikipedia articles needing style editing from March 2016All articles needing style editingAccuracy disputes from March 2016All accuracy disputesArticles that may contain original research from March 2016All articles that may contain original researchArticles needing additional references from March 2016All articles needing additional referencesArticles lacking page references from March 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2016Wikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2016Articles with disputed statements from March 2016Articles to be expanded from March 2016All articles to be expandedWikipedia articles with GND identifiers