Condenser(heattransfer)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For condensers not involving heat transfer, see Condenser (disambiguation).
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The condenser coil of a refrigerator
In systems involving heat transfer, a condenser is a device or unit used to condense a substance from its gaseous to its liquid state, by cooling it. In so doing, the latent heat is given up by the substance, and will transfer to the condenser coolant. Condensers are typically heat exchangers which have various designs and come in many sizes ranging from rather small (hand-held) to very large industrial-scale units used in plant processes. For example, a refrigerator uses a condenser to get rid of heat extracted from the interior of the unit to the outside air. Condensers are used in air conditioning, industrial chemical processes such as distillation, steam power plants and other heat-exchange systems. Use of cooling water or surrounding air as the coolant is common in many condensers.[1]
Contents
1 Examples of condensers
2 Equation
3 See also
4 References
Examples of condensers[edit]
A surface condenser is an example of such a heat-exchange system. It is a shell and tube heat exchanger installed at the outlet of every steam turbine in thermal power stations. Commonly, the cooling water flows through the tube side and the steam enters the shell side where the condensation occurs on the outside of the heat transfer tubes. The condensate drips down and collects at the bottom, often in a built-in pan called a hotwell. The shell side often operates at a vacuum or partial vacuum, produced by the difference in specific volume between the steam and condensate. Conversely, the vapor can be fed through the tubes with the coolant water or air flowing around the outside.
In chemistry, a condenser is the apparatus which cools hot vapors, causing them to condense into a liquid. See "Condenser (laboratory)" for laboratory-scale condensers, as opposed to industrial-scale condensers. Examples include the Liebig condenser, Graham condenser, and Allihn condenser. This is not to be confused with a condensation reaction which links two fragments into a single molecule by an addition reaction and an elimination reaction.
In laboratory distillation, reflux, and rotary evaporators, several types of condensers are commonly used. The Liebig condenser is simply a straight tube within a cooling water jacket, and is the simplest (and relatively least expensive) form of condenser. The Graham condenser is a spiral tube within a water jacket, and the Allihn condenser has a series of large and small constrictions on the inside tube, each increasing the surface area upon which the vapor constituents may condense. Being more complex shapes to manufacture, these latter types are also more expensive to purchase. These three types of condensers are laboratory glassware items since they are typically made of glass. Commercially available condensers usually are fitted with ground glass joints and come in standard lengths of 100, 200, and 400 mm. Air-cooled condensers are unjacketed, while water-cooled condensers contain a jacket for the water.
Larger condensers are also used in industrial-scale distillation processes to cool distilled vapor into liquid distillate. Commonly, the coolant flows through the tube side and distilled vapor through the shell side with distillate collecting at or flowing out the bottom.
Condenser unit for central air conditioning for a typical house
A condenser unit used in central air conditioning systems typically has a heat exchanger section to cool down and condense incoming refrigerant vapor into liquid, a compressor to raise the pressure of the refrigerant and move it along, and a fan for blowing outside air through the heat exchanger section to cool the refrigerant inside. A typical configuration of such a condenser unit is as follows: The heat exchanger section wraps around the sides of the unit with the compressor inside. In this heat exchanger section, the refrigerant goes through multiple tube passes, which are surrounded by heat transfer fins through which cooling air can move from outside to inside the unit. There is a motorized fan inside the condenser unit near the top, which is covered by some grating to keep any objects from accidentally falling inside on the fan. The fan is used to blow the outside cooling air in through the heat exchange section at the sides and out the top through the grating. These condenser units are located on the outside of the building they are trying to cool, with tubing between the unit and building, one for vapor refrigerant entering and another for liquid refrigerant leaving the unit. Of course, an electric power supply is needed for the compressor and fan inside the unit.
Direct contact condenser
In this type of condenser, vapors are poured into the liquid directly. The vapors lose their latent heat of vaporization; hence, vapors transfer their heat into liquid and the liquid becomes hot. In this type of condensation, the vapor and liquid are of same type of substance. In another type of direct contact condenser, cold water is sprayed into the vapour to be condensed.
Other Types of Condensers
This article's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (July 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
In the world of Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC), condensers happen to be a topic of great importance. Instead of confusing information, the goal is to provide some basic information on the different types of condensers and their applications.
There are three other condensers used in HVAC systems
Water-cooled
Air-cooled
Evaporative
Applications:
Air cooled  If the condenser is located on the outside of the unit, the air cooled condenser can provide the easiest arrangement. These types of condensers eject heat to the outdoors and are simple to install.
Most common uses for this condenser are domestic refrigerators, upright freezers and in residential packaged air conditioning units. A great feature of the air cooled condenser is they are very easy to clean. Since dirt can cause serious issues with the condensers performance, it is highly recommended that these be kept clear of dirt.
Water cooled  Although a little more pricey to install, these condensers are the more efficient type. Commonly used for swimming pools and condensers piped for city water flow, these condensers require regular service and maintenance.
They also require a cooling tower to conserve water. To prevent corrosion and the forming of algae, water cooled condensers require a constant supply of makeup water along with water treatment.
Depending on the application you can choose from tube in tube, shell and coil or shell and tube condensers. All are essentially made to produce the same outcome, but each in a different way.
Evaporative  While these remain the least popular choice, evaporative condensers can be used inside or outside of a building and under typical conditions, operate at a low condensing temperature.
Typically these are used in large commercial air-conditioning units. Although effective, they are not necessarily the most efficient.
Prior to beginning your install, make sure you choose a condenser that will provide you with the most efficient use.
Equation[edit]
For an ideal single-pass condenser whose coolant has constant density, constant heat capacity, linear enthalpy over the temperature range, perfect cross-sectional heat transfer, and zero longitudinal heat transfer, and whose tubing has constant perimeter, constant thickness, and constant heat conductivity, and whose condensible fluid is perfectly mixed and at constant temperature, the coolant temperature varies along its tube according to:
 
(
x
)
=
T
H
 
T
(
x
)
T
H
 
T
(
0
)
=
e
 
N
T
U
=
e
 
h
P
x
m
 
c
=
e
 
G
x
m
 
c
L
{\displaystyle \Theta (x)={\frac {T_{H}-T(x)}{T_{H}-T(0)}}=e^{-NTU}=e^{-{\frac {hPx}{{\dot {m}}c}}}=e^{-{\frac {Gx}{{\dot {m}}cL}}}}
where:
x is the distance from the coolant inlet;
T(x) is the coolant temperature, and T(0) the coolant temperature at its inlet;
TH is the hot fluid's temperature;
NTU is the number of transfer units;
m is the coolant's mass (or other) flow rate;
c is the coolant's heat capacity at constant pressure per unit mass (or other);
h is the heat transfer coefficient of the coolant tube;
P is the perimeter of the coolant tube;
G is the heat conductance of the coolant tube (often denoted UA);
L is the length of the coolant tube.
See also[edit]
Condenser (laboratory)
Air well (condenser)
cond
References[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Condenser.
^ Hindelang, Maureen; Palazzolo, Joseph; Robertson, Matthew, "Condensers", Encyclopedia of CHemical Engineering Equipment, University of Michigan, retrieved May 13, 2012
v
t
e
Steam engines
Operating cycle
Atmospheric
Watt
Cornish
Compound
Uniflow
Valves
Valves
Slide
D slide
Piston
Drop
Corliss
Poppet
Sleeve
Bash
Valve gear
Gab
Stephenson link
Joy
Walschaerts
Allan
Baker
Corliss
Lentz
Caprotti
Gresley conjugated
Southern
Mechanisms
Beam
Cataract
Centrifugal governor
Connecting rod
Crank
Crankshaft
Hypocycloidal gear
Link chain
Parallel motion
Plate chain
Rotative beam
Sun and planet gear
Watt's linkage
Boilers
Simple boilers
Haystack
Wagon
Egg-ended
Box
Flued
Cornish
Lancashire
Fire-tube boilers
Locomotive
Scotch
Launch
Water-tube boilers
Babcock & Wilcox
Field-tube
Sentinel
Stirling
Thimble tube
Three-drum
Yarrow
Boiler feed
Feedwater heater
Feedwater pump
Injector
Cylinder
Locomotive
Oscillating
Single- and double-acting
Condenser
Condensing steam locomotive
Jet
Kirchweger
Watt's separate
"Pickle-pot"
Surface
Other
Crosshead
Cutoff
Expansion valve
Hydrolock
Piston
Reciprocating engine
Return connecting rod engine
Six-column beam engine
Steeple engine
Safety valve
Steeple compound engine
Stroke
Working fluid
History
Precursors
Savery Engine (1698)
Newcomen engine
Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725)
Fairbottom Bobs (1760)
Elsecar Engine (1795)
Watt engine
Beam
Kinneil Engine (1768)
Old Bess (1777)
Chacewater Mine engine (1778)
Smethwick Engine (1779)
Resolution (1781)
Rotative beam
Soho Manufactory engine (1782)
Bradley Works engine (1783)
Whitbread Engine (1785)
National Museum of Scotland engine (1786)
Lap Engine (1788)
High-pressure
Richard Trevithick
Puffing Devil (1801)
London Steam Carriage (1803)
"Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803)
"Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804)
Compound
Woolf's compound engine (1803)
Murray
Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805)
Salamanca (1812)
High-speed
Porter-Allen (1862)
See also
Glossary of steam locomotive components
History of steam road vehicles
Cugnot's fardier  vapeur (1769)
Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784)
Lean's Engine Reporter
List of steam technology patents
Modern steam
Stationary steam engine
Timeline of steam power
Water-returning engine
Authority control
NDL: 00575968
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1181
Cached time: 20161120054000
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.156 seconds
Real time usage: 0.237 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2122/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 85728/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 4955/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.052/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.89 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
155.760
1 - -total
37.60%
58.565
5 - Template:Navbox
23.75%
36.990
1 - Template:Steam_engine_configurations
22.82%
35.537
1 - Template:Reflist
20.67%
32.200
1 - Template:Citation
19.32%
30.092
4 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
16.42%
25.570
1 - Template:Refimprove
15.90%
24.772
2 - Template:Ambox
13.65%
21.255
1 - Template:Commons_category
12.70%
19.775
1 - Template:For
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:13903462-0!*!0!!en!4!*!math=5 and timestamp 20161120054000 and revision id 744159709
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Condenser_(heat_transfer)&oldid=744159709"
Categories: Heating, ventilating, and air conditioningLaboratory glasswareHeat transferGas technologiesHeat exchangersHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from March 2015All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles needing style editing from July 2015All articles needing style editingCommons category with local link different than on Wikidata