Conservation(ethic)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Satellite photograph of industrial deforestation in the Tierras Bajas project in eastern Bolivia, using skyline logging and replacement of forests by agriculture
Much attention has been given to preserving the natural characteristics of Hopetoun Falls, Australia, while allowing access for visitors
Conservation is an ethic of resource use, allocation, and protection. Its primary focus is upon maintaining the health of the natural world, its fisheries, habitats, and biological diversity. Secondary focus is on materials conservation, including non-renewable resources such as metals, minerals and fossil fuels, and energy conservation, which is important to protect the natural world. Those who follow the conservation ethic and, especially, those who advocate or work toward conservation goals are termed conservationists.
The terms conservation and preservation are frequently conflated outside of the academic, scientific, and professional literatures. The US National Park Service offers the following explanation of the important ways in which these two terms represent very different conceptions of environmental protection ethics:
Conservation and preservation are closely linked and may indeed seem to mean the same thing. Both terms involve a degree of protection, but how that is protection is carried out is the key difference. Conservation is generally associated with the protection of natural resources, while preservation is associated with the protection of buildings, objects, and landscapes. Put simply, conservation seeks the proper use of nature, while preservation seeks protection of nature from use.
During the environmental movement of the early 20th century, two opposing factions emerged: conservationists and preservationists. Conservationists sought to regulate human use while preservationists sought to eliminate human impact altogether.[1]
Contents
1 Introduction
2 Terminology
3 Practice
4 See also
5 References
6 Further reading
7 External links
Introduction[edit]
To conserve habitat in terrestrial ecoregions and to stop deforestation is a goal widely shared by many groups with a wide variety of motivations.
To protect sea life from extinction due to overfishing or climate change is another commonly stated goal of conservation  ensuring that "some will be available for future generations" to continue a way of life.
The consumer conservation ethic is sometimes expressed by the four R's: " Rethink, Reduce, Recycle, Repair" This social ethic primarily relates to local purchasing, moral purchasing, the sustained, and efficient use of renewable resources, the moderation of destructive use of finite resources, and the prevention of harm to common resources such as air and water quality, the natural functions of a living earth, and cultural values in a built environment.
The principal value underlying most expressions of the conservation ethic is that the natural world has intrinsic and intangible worth along with utilitarian value  a view carried forward by the scientific conservation movement and some of the older Romantic schools of ecology movement.
More Utilitarian schools of conservation seek a proper valuation of local and global impacts of human activity upon nature in their effect upon human well being, now and to posterity. How such values are assessed and exchanged among people determines the social, political, and personal restraints and imperatives by which conservation is practiced. This is a view common in the modern environmental movement.
These movements have diverged but they have deep and common roots in the conservation movement.
In the United States of America, the year 1864 saw the publication of two books which laid the foundation for Romantic and Utilitarian conservation traditions in America. The posthumous publication of Henry David Thoreau's Walden established the grandeur of unspoiled nature as a citadel to nourish the spirit of man. From George Perkins Marsh a very different book, Man and Nature, later subtitled "The Earth as Modified by Human Action", catalogued his observations of man exhausting and altering the land from which his sustenance derives.
Terminology[edit]
The conservation of natural resources is the fundamental problem. Unless we solve that problem, it will avail us little to solve all others.
Theodore Roosevelt[2]
In common usage, the term refers to the activity of systematically protecting natural resources such as forests, including biological diversity. Carl F. Jordan defines the term as:[3]
biological conservation as being a philosophy of managing the environment in a manner that does not despoil, exhaust or extinguish.
While this usage is not new, the idea of biological conservation has been applied to the principles of ecology, biogeography, anthropology, economy and sociology to maintain. biodiversity.
The term "conservation" itself may cover the concepts such as cultural diversity, genetic diversity and the concept of movements environmental conservation, seedbank (preservation of seeds). These are often summarized as the priority to respect diversity, especially by Greens.
Much recent movement in conservation can be considered a resistance to commercialism and globalization. Slow food is a consequence of rejecting these as moral priorities, and embracing a slower and more locally focused lifestyle.
Practice[edit]
The Daintree Rainforest in Queensland, Australia
Distinct trends exist regarding conservation development. While many countries' efforts to preserve species and their habitats have been government-led, those in the North Western Europe tended to arise out of the middle-class and aristocratic interest in natural history, expressed at the level of the individual and the national, regional or local learned society. Thus countries like Britain, the Netherlands, Germany, etc. had what we would today term NGOs  in the shape of the RSPB, National Trust and County Naturalists' Trusts (dating back to 1889, 1895 and 1912 respectively) Natuurmonumenten, Provincial conservation Trusts for each Dutch province, Vogelbescherming, etc.  a long time before there were national parks and national nature reserves. This in part reflects the absence of wilderness areas in heavily cultivated Europe, as well as a longstanding interest in laissez-faire government in some countries, like the UK, leaving it as no coincidence that John Muir, the Scottish-born founder of the National Park movement (and hence of government-sponsored conservation) did his sterling work in the USA, where he was the motor force behind the establishment of such NPs as Yosemite and Yellowstone. Nowadays, officially more than 10 percent of the world is legally protected in some way or the other, and in practice private fundraising is insufficient to pay for the effective management of so much land with protective status.
Protected areas in developing countries, where probably as many as 7080 percent of the species of the world live, still enjoy very little effective management and protection. Some countries, such as Mexico, have non-profit civil organizations and land owners dedicated to protect vast private property, such is the case of Hacienda Chichen's Maya Jungle Reserve and Bird Refuge[4] in Chichen Itza, Yucatn. The Adopt A Ranger Foundation has calculated that worldwide about 140,000 rangers are needed for the protected areas in developing and transition countries. There are no data on how many rangers are employed at the moment, but probably less than half the protected areas in developing and transition countries have any rangers at all and those that have them are at least 50% short This means that there would be a worldwide ranger deficit of 105,000 rangers in the developing and transition countries.
One of the world's foremost conservationists, Dr. Kenton Miller, stated about the importance of rangers: "The future of our ecosystem services and our heritage depends upon park rangers. With the rapidity at which the challenges to protected areas are both changing and increasing, there has never been more of a need for well prepared human capacity to manage. Park rangers are the backbone of park management. They are on the ground. They work on the front line with scientists, visitors, and members of local communities."
Adopt A Ranger,[5] fears that the ranger deficit is the greatest single limiting factor in effectively conserving nature in 75% of the world. Currently, no conservation organization or western country or international organization addresses this problem. Adopt A Ranger has been incorporated to draw worldwide public attention to the most urgent problem that conservation is facing in developing and transition countries: protected areas without field staff. Very specifically, it will contribute to solving the problem by fund raising to finance rangers in the field. It will also help governments in developing and transition countries to assess realistic staffing needs and staffing strategies.
Others, including Survival International, have advocated instead for cooperation with local tribal peoples, who are natural allies of the conservation movement and can provide cost-effective protection.[6]
See also[edit]
Environment portal
Ecology portal
Earth sciences portal
Sustainable development portal
Conservation biology
Conservation movement
Cryoconservation of animal genetic resources, the conservation of animal genetic information using cryogenics
Ecology
Environmentalism
Environmental protection
Habitat conservation
Index of environmental articles
List of environmental issues
List of environmental organizations
conservationof Fuel
Natural environment
Natural capital
Natural resource
Renewable resource
Sustainability
Sustainable agriculture
Water conservation
Wildlife conservation
References[edit]
^ http://www.nps.gov/klgo/learn/education/classrooms/conservation-vs-preservation.htm
^ Theodore Roosevelt, Address to the Deep Waterway Convention Memphis, TN, October 4, 1907
^ Jordan, Carl (1995). Replacing Quantity With Quality As a Goal for Global Management. Wiley. ISBN0-471-59515-2.
^ Haciendachichen.com, "The Importance of Eco-Design"
^ Adopt-a-ranger.org
^ http://www.survivalinternational.org/conservation
Further reading[edit]
Conservation and evolution (Frankel et Soul, 1981)
Glacken, C.J. (1967) Traces on the Rhodian Shore. University of California Press. Berkeley
Grove, R.H. (1992) 'Origins of Western Environmentalism', Scientific American 267(1): 22-27.
Grove, R.H. (1997) Ecology, Climate and Empire: Colonialism and Global Environmental History 1400-1940 Cambridge: Whitehorse Press
Grove, R.H. (1995) Green Imperialism: Colonial Expansion, Tropical Island Edens, and the Origins of Environmentalism, 1600-1860 New York: Cambridge University Press
Leopold, A. (1966) A Sand County Almanac New York: Oxford University Press
Pinchot, G. (1910) The Fight for Conservation New York: Harcourt Brace.
"Why Care for Earth's Environment?" (in the series "The Bible's Viewpoint") is a two-page article in the December 2007 issue of the magazine Awake!.
Sutherland, W.; et al. (2015). What Works in Conservation. Open Book Publishers. A free textbook for download.
External links[edit]
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Conservation
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Conservation.
Dictionary of the History of ideas: Conservation of Natural Resources
For Future Generations, a Canadian documentary on how the conservation ethic influenced national parks
Category List --- Religion-Online.org "Ecology/Environment"
v
t
e
Conservation of species
Conservation biology
Conservation behavior
Conservation dependent species
Conservation ethic
Conservation genetics
Conservation status
Ex-situ conservation
Extinction threshold
In-situ conservation
Latent extinction risk
Marine conservation
Species translocation
Threatened species
Conservation areas
Conservation designation
Conservation development
Conservation district
Conservation easement
Ecoregion conservation status
Environmental protection
Gap analysis
Habitat conservation
High conservation value area
Landscape-scale conservation
Marine protected area
National conservation area
Open space reserve
Riparian buffer
Roadless area conservation
Roadside conservation
Site-based conservation
Special Area of Conservation
Restoration
Assisted natural regeneration
Ecosystem restoration
Island restoration
Reforestation
afforestation
Rewilding
By taxa
Amphibians and reptiles
Birds
burrowing owls
raptors
Insects
bumblebees
butterflies
Land mammals
bats
bats 2
bears
cheetahs
cheetahs 2
gorillas
painted dogs
slow lorises
small cats
tigers
tigers 2
wolves
Marine
Antarctic seals
cetaceans
cetaceans 2
manatees
migratory sharks
salmon
sea otters
sea turtles
sturgeons
Plants
forests
fungi
medicinal plants
orchids
By country
Australia
Belize
Brazil
Hong Kong
Iceland
India
Bhopal
Ireland
Italy
New Zealand
Papua New Guinea
Uganda
United Kingdom
United States
Other
Biodiversity
Conservation agriculture
Conservation finance
Conservation grazing
Conservation management system
Conservation movement
Conservation officer
Conservation organisations
Conservation photography
Conservation psychology
Conservation refugee
Conspicuous conservation
De-extinction
Myth of superabundance
NatureServe conservation status
Planetary boundaries
Index of conservation articles
List of conservation issues
Category
Authority control
GND: 4115348-0
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1274
Cached time: 20161119133849
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.164 seconds
Real time usage: 0.232 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 770/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 37761/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 713/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 9/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.060/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.93 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
167.848
1 - -total
27.03%
45.366
1 - Template:Refimprove
22.69%
38.093
1 - Template:Reflist
20.65%
34.656
2 - Template:Cite_book
16.93%
28.418
1 - Template:Ambox
9.99%
16.760
1 - Template:Conservation_of_species
9.02%
15.133
1 - Template:Authority_control
8.88%
14.907
1 - Template:Navbox
7.87%
13.207
1 - Template:Commons_category
5.51%
9.254
1 - Template:Portal
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:100089-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119133849 and revision id 741205844
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Conservation_(ethic)&oldid=741205844"
Categories: ConservationEnvironmental ethicsHabitatHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from April 2009All articles needing additional referencesCommons category without a link on WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiers