Dynamicdemand(electricpower)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Dynamic Demand is the name of a semi-passive technology for adjusting load demands on an electrical power grid. (It is also the name of an independent not-for-profit organization in the UK supported by a charitable grant from the Esme Fairbairn Foundation dedicated to promoting this technology.) The concept is that by monitoring the frequency of the power grid, as well as their own controls, intermittent domestic and industrial loads switch themselves on/off at optimal moments to balance the overall grid load with generation, reducing critical power mismatches.[1] As this switching would only advance or delay the appliance operating cycle by a few seconds, it would be unnoticeable to the end user. This is the foundation of dynamic demand control. In the United States, in 1982, a (now-lapsed) patent for this idea was issued to power systems engineer Fred Schweppe.[2] Other patents have been issued based on this idea.[3][4][5][6]
Dynamic demand is similar to demand response mechanisms to manage domestic and industrial consumption of electricity in response to supply conditions, for example, having electricity customers reduce their consumption at critical times or in response to prices.[7] The difference is that dynamic demand devices passively shut off when stress in the grid is sensed, whereas demand response mechanisms respond to transmitted requests to shut off,
Contents
1 The need for spinning reserve
2 Local load control
3 Ancillary services
4 Implementation issues
5 Frequency service and reserve service
6 UK government investigation
7 See also
8 References
9 External links
The need for spinning reserve[edit]
The power utilities are able to predict to a reasonable accuracy (generally to within one or two percent) the demand pattern throughout any particular day. This means that the free market in electricity is able to schedule just enough base load in advance. Any remaining imbalance would then be due either to inaccuracies in the prediction, or unscheduled changes in supply (such as a power station fault) and/or demand. Such imbalances are removed by requesting generators to operate in so called frequency response mode (also called frequency control mode), altering their output continuously to keep the frequency near the required value.
The grid frequency is a system-wide indicator of overall power imbalance. For example, it will drop if there is too much demand because generators will start to slow down slightly. A generator in frequency-response mode will, under nominal conditions, run at reduced output in order to maintain a buffer of spare capacity. It will then continually alter its output on a second-to-second basis to the needs of the grid with droop speed control.
This spinning reserve is a significant expense to the power utilities as often fuel must be burned or potential power sales lost to maintain it. The kind of generation used for fast response is usually fossil fuel powered which produces emissions of between 0.48 and 1.3 tonnes of CO2 equivalent for every megawatt hour (MWh) generated. Thus a significant environmental burden, in the form of increased greenhouse gas emissions, is associated with this imbalance.
Local load control[edit]
A clothes dryer using a load control switch to reduce peak demand
In principle, any appliance that operates to a duty cycle (such as industrial or domestic air conditioners, water heaters, heat pumps and refrigeration) could be used to provide a constant and reliable grid balancing service by timing their duty cycles in response to system load.
Because it is possible to measure grid frequency from any power outlet on the grid, it is possible to design controllers for electrical appliances that detect any frequency imbalance in real time. Dynamic-demand enabled appliances would react to this same signal. When the frequency decreases they would be more likely to switch off, reducing the load on the grid and helping to restore the balance. When the frequency increases past the standard, they would be more likely to switch on, using up the excess power. Obviously, the controller must also ensure that at no point does the appliance stray out of its acceptable operating range. As line frequency is directly related to the speed of rotation of generators on the system, millions of such devices acting together would act like a huge, fast-reacting peaking power plant.
Ancillary services[edit]
The dynamic controller could also provide other ancillary services, such as aiding blackstart recoverythe ability of a power grid to be brought back to service after a power outage  if programmed with that function. Generally blackstarts are made more difficult because of the large number of reactive loads attempting to draw power simultaneously at start up when voltages are low. This causes huge overloads that trip local breakers delaying full system recovery. The dynamic controller could have these loads "wait their turn", as it were, until full power had been restored.
Another vital balancing service is fast reserve which is the use of standby plant to replace possible lost generation (e.g. due to a failed power generator or lost power line). By shedding load quickly while the running generators spin up, then switching back in to bring the frequency back to standard, dynamic controllers could spare the high cost of fast reserve generators. Also the fast response speed of this method would avoid possible brownouts occurring.
The technology could also help facilitate greater use of generation from variable sources, like wind power. Demand-side techniques could be an efficient and cost-effective way to help integrate this resource onto the grid. In particular it would allow these sources to work in conjunction with virtual power reserves like municipal water towers[8] to provide a reasonably predictable dispatchable capacity.
Implementation issues[edit]
Dynamic demand devices have the potential to save considerable amounts of energy by the services they provide. But before dynamic demand control can be widely incorporated regulation must be put in place to mandate installation on at least new appliances or an effective market mechanism must be created to reward installation of the technology fairly. One method contemplated is to enable the electricity meter that measures the electricity consumption also measure the grid frequency, and switch to a higher tariff if the frequency drops below a certain level. The monthly electricity bill will then say that so many hours (and so many kilowatt hours) were on the Regular tariff and a few hours on the Short Supply tariff. Those consumers without smart demand management have to pay the extra cost, but those who install smart technologies that adapt to the short supply periods will save money.
On 1 March 2011, RLtec launched its Dynamic Demand  frequency response service in hot water and HVAC load devices distributed across one of the UKs largest supermarket chains, Sainsbury's. This megawatt scale virtual power plant service provides commercial frequency regulating response to National Grid in the UK. The company is now called Open Energi.[9]
Frequency service and reserve service[edit]
Main article: National Grid Reserve Service
The national grid in the UK already is a massive user of this technology at an industrial scale - up to 2 GW of load can be lost instantaneously by frequency sensitive relays switching off steelworks etc., which is matched over a 20-minute cycle by up to 2 GW of quite small emergency diesel generators. For a complete description of this complex system see for example "Emergency Diesel Standby Generators Potential Contribution to Dealing With Renewable Energy Sources Intermittency And Variability" - a talk by David Andrews of Wessex Water who works closely with the UK National Grid to provide this service, given at the Open University Seminar "Coping with Variability - Integrating Renewables into the Electricity System" 24 January 2006. [2]
Up to 5 GW of such diesel generation is used in France for similar purposes, but these technologies seem to be relatively unknown [3][bettersourceneeded]. There is no reason they should not be massively increased in scope [4][bettersourceneeded] to cope with even the intermittence introduced by wind power.
UK government investigation[edit]
In August 2007, the UK government published a report outlining what potential it sees for dynamic demand technology.[5] The report stops short of recommending the government encourage its introduction. It lists a number of technical and economic barriers to its introduction and recommends these be investigated before the government encourage the use of dynamic demand. Dynamic demand is one element of a wider government investigation into technologies that can cut greenhouse gas emissions.
However, in 2009 it was announced that domestic refrigerators are now being sold into the UK incorporating a dynamic load control system [6][bettersourceneeded]
See also[edit]
Energy portal
Advanced Distribution Automation
Distribution management system
Demand response Dynamic demand on a smart grid
Electricity market
Electricity retailing
Energy demand management
Flexible AC transmission system
Grid friendly
GridLAB-D
List of energy storage projects
Energy Reduction Assets
References[edit]
^ http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20090609003228/http://www.berr.gov.uk/files/file41011.pdf page3 domestic and industrial
^ US-Patent No. 4,317,049: Frequency adaptive, power-energy re-scheduler
^ US Patent No. 7,010,363: Electrical appliance energy consumption control methods and electrical energy consumption systems, Mar 2006.
^ US Patent No. 7,149,605: "Electrical power distribution control methods, electrical energy demand monitoring methods, and power management devices," Dec 2006.
^ US Patent No. 7,420,293: "Electrical appliance energy consumption control methods and electrical energy consumption systems," Sep 2008.
^ US Patent No. 8,073,573 B2; "Electric Power Distribution Control Methods, Electrical Energy Demand Monitoring Methods, and Power Management Devices," Dec 2011.
^ [1] Description of French EJP demand reduction tariff
^ DJ Hammerstrom et al., "Pacific Northwest GridWise Testbed Demonstration Projects: Part I. Olympic Peninsula Project," PNNL-17167, October 2007.
^ http://www.openenergi.com/our-customers/sainsburys/
External links[edit]
Dynamic Demand U.K.
Open Energi
A Note On the Potential Value of "Dynamic Demand" Control (in the UK/EU)
"Frequency Control by Demand Management". National Grid. Retrieved 2010-11-22.
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1258
Cached time: 20161119100130
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.136 seconds
Real time usage: 0.189 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1187/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 38140/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 2385/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.057/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.46 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
148.265
1 - -total
24.43%
36.225
1 - Template:Refimprove
24.32%
36.062
3 - Template:Better_source
21.89%
32.459
3 - Template:Fix
17.23%
25.550
1 - Template:Cite_web
16.00%
23.716
1 - Template:Ambox
15.52%
23.008
2 - Template:Navbox
15.26%
22.623
3 - Template:Delink
14.70%
21.791
1 - Template:Electricity_generation
5.46%
8.100
1 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:5069898-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119100130 and revision id 701493759
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dynamic_demand_(electric_power)&oldid=701493759"
Categories: Electric power distributionEnergy economicsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from December 2009All articles needing additional referencesAll articles lacking reliable referencesArticles lacking reliable references from February 2014