EarthCharter
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}The Earth Charter is an international declaration of fundamental values and principles considered useful by its supporters for building a just, sustainable, and peaceful global society in the 21st century. Created by a global consultation process, and endorsed by organizations representing millions of people, the Charter "seeks to inspire in all peoples a sense of global interdependence and shared responsibility for the well-being of the human family, the greater community of life, and future generations."[1] It calls upon humanity to help create a global partnership at a critical juncture in history. The Earth Charter's ethical vision proposes that environmental protection, human rights, equitable human development, and peace are interdependent and indivisible. The Charter attempts to provide a new framework for thinking about and addressing these issues. The Earth Charter Initiative organization exists to promote the Charter.
Contents
1 History
2 Drafting
3 Contents
3.1 Preamble
3.2 Principles
4 Reaction
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
History[edit]
The idea of the Earth Charter originated in 1987, by Maurice Strong and Mikhail Gorbachev as members of The Club of Rome, when the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development called for a new charter to guide the transition to sustainable development. In 1992, the need for a charter was urged by then-Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali at the Rio de Janeiro Earth Summit, but the time for such a declaration was not believed to be right. The Rio Declaration became the statement of the achievable consensus at that time. In 1994, Maurice Strong (Chairman of the Earth Summit) and Mikhail Gorbachev, working through organizations they each founded (the Earth Council and Green Cross International respectively), restarted the Earth Charter as a civil society initiative, with the help of the government of the Netherlands.[2]
Strong died in November 2015.[2]
"The Ark of Hope was created for a celebration of the Earth Charter held at Shelburne Farms, Vermont on September 9, 2001." [1]
Drafting[edit]
The drafting of the text was done during a six-year worldwide consultation process (19942000), overseen by the independent Earth Charter Commission, which was convened by Strong and Gorbachev with the purpose of developing a global consensus on values and principles for a sustainable future. The Commission continues to serve as the steward of the Earth Charter text.
One of the principle creators of the Earth Charter was Steven Clark Rockefeller, who, among other things is professor emeritus of Religion at Middlebury College and an advisory trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. According to text with a 2001 interview with Rockefeller, he "chaired the Earth Charter international drafting committee. He is also a member of the Earth Charter Commission and Steering Committee..."
The final text of the Earth Charter was approved at a meeting of the Earth Charter Commission at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris in March 2000. The official launch was on 29 June 2000 in a ceremony at The Peace Palace in The Hague, Netherlands. Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands attended the ceremony.
Contents[edit]
The approximately 2,400 word document is divided into sections (called pillars), which have sixteen main principles containing sixty-one supporting principles.[3] The document opens with a preamble and ends with a conclusion entitled The Way Forward.
Preamble[edit]

We stand at a critical moment in Earth's history, a time when humanity must choose its future. As the world becomes increasingly interdependent and fragile, the future at once holds great peril and great promise. To move forward we must recognize that in the midst of a magnificent diversity of cultures and life forms we are one human family and one Earth community with a common destiny. We must join together to bring forth a sustainable global society founded on respect for nature, universal human rights, economic justice, and a culture of peace. Towards this end, it is imperative that we, the peoples of Earth, declare our responsibility to one another, to the greater community of life, and to future generations.[4]

Principles[edit]
The four pillars and sixteen principles of the Earth Charter are:[4]
I. Respect and Care for the Community of Life
1. Respect Earth and life in all its diversity.
2. Care for the community of life with understanding, compassion and love.
3. Build democratic societies that are just, participatory, sustainable and peaceful.
4. Secure Earth's bounty and beauty for present and future generations.
II. Ecological Integrity
5. Protect and restore the integrity of Earth's ecological systems, with special concern for biological diversity and the natural processes that sustain life.
6. Prevent harm as the best method of environmental protection and, when knowledge is limited, apply a precautionary approach.
7. Adopt patterns of production, consumption and reproduction that safeguard Earth's regenerative capacities, human rights and community well-being.
8. Advance the study of ecological sustainability and promote the open exchange and wide application of the knowledge acquired.
III. Social and Economic Justice
9. Eradicate poverty as an ethical, social and environmental imperative.
10. Ensure that economic activities and institutions at all levels promote human development in an equitable and sustainable manner.
11. Affirm gender equality and equity as prerequisites to sustainable development and ensure universal access to education, health care and economic opportunity.
12. Uphold the right of all, without discrimination, to a natural and social environment supportive of human dignity, bodily health and spiritual well-being, with special attention to the rights of indigenous peoples and minorities.
IV. Democracy, Nonviolence, and Peace
13. Strengthen democratic institutions at all levels, and provide transparency and accountability in governance, inclusive participation in decision-making, and access to justice.
14. Integrate into formal education and lifelong learning the knowledge, values and skills needed for a sustainable way of life.
15. Treat all living beings with respect and consideration.
16. Promote a culture of tolerance, nonviolence and peace.
Reaction[edit]
The Charter has been formally endorsed by organizations representing millions of people, including the UNESCO,[5] over 250 universities around the world,[6] the World Conservation Union of IUCN, the Indian National Capital Territory of Delhi,[7] the 2001 U.S. Conference of Mayors,[8] and dozens of youth organizations.[9]
Various religious groups from a wide range of religions support the Earth Charter. The Soka Gakkai International, representing more than 12 million Buddhists worldwide, has supported the Earth Charter since its inception.[10] The Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations representing over 1000 Unitarian Universalist congregations in the United States supports the measure.[11] The official body of the Baha'i Faith religion reacted by saying "While not officially endorsing the Earth Charter, the Baha'i International Community considers the effort toward drafting it and activities in support of its essential objectives to be highly commendable, and it will continue to participate in related activities, such as conferences, forums and the like."[12] The World Pantheist Movement, which supports a naturalistic view of religion, endorses the plan.[13] The Leadership Conference of Women Religious, a Catholic organization in the United States approved the measure in 2004.[14] The Diocese of Newark (New Jersey), an Episcopalian Christian organization, recently endorsed the Earth Charter.[15]
Mayor Hsu of Tainan, a city of 750,000 in Taiwan, endorsed the charter in 2007.[16] The cities of Corvallis (Oregon), Berkeley (California), Pickering (Canada) and 21 towns in Vermont have endorsed the measure.[17][18][19] Nine other towns in Vermont rejected measures endorsing the Earth Charter.[20]
Engineers Without Borders, an international association whose mission is to help its member groups assist poor communities in their respective countries and around the world, also endorses the Earth Charter.[21] The Green Party of Botswana supports the plan.[22] The African Conservation Foundation describes the Earth Charter movement as a "partner".[23]
In the UK, Bournemouth Borough Council endorsed the Charter in 2008.
The Charter has received opposition from several groups. For example, in the United States, members of religious groups, such as the Religious Right have objected to the document on the grounds that it is secular, and espouses socialism.[citation needed] In addition, some conservatives[who?] cite an informal comment by Mikhail Gorbachev that the document is "a kind of Ten Commandments" and point to the fact that at the 2002 World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg, South Africa, a copy of the document was placed symbolically in an "Ark of Hope"  an independent project by the American artist Sally Linder. A number of conspiracy theorists claim that the founders of the Earth Charter are attempting to establish a global super-state to enforce the Charter.
Indigenous Peoples did not endorse the Earth Charter and adopted their own Indigenous Peoples Earth Charter.
Earth Charter International, the organization responsible for promoting the Charter, states in its literature that the Earth Charter is respectful and inclusive of all religious traditions. They say that the Charter itself makes no statements to support these claims of intent to supplant any of the world's religions or to create a world government. ECI asserts that the Charter is a statement of common ethical values towards sustainability, that recognizes humanity's shared responsibility to the Earth and to each other.[24]
See also[edit]
Globalization portal
The Philosophical Concept of The Constitution of the Earth (J. Smajs, Czech Republic)
Universal Declaration of Human Rights
University for Peace
Earth Day
World Ocean Day
World Water Day
References[edit]
^ Earth Charter Initiative: "What is the Earth Charter?".
^ a b Maurice Strong: "History of the Earth Charter".
^ Nigel Dower, University of Aberdeen (2004): "The Earth Charter as a Global Ethic", p.4.
^ a b Earth Charter Initiative: "Text of the Earth Charter".
^ United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization: "Records of the General Conference", 32nd Session, Vol. 1, p.35
^ Earth Charter Initiative (March 26, 2009): "Universities that have endorsed the Earth Charter".
^ "One million saplings to be planted by 2010", The Hindu, Apr 21, 2007
^ "Adopted Resolutions: Energy and Environment, Endorsement of Earth Charter", 69th Annual Conference of U.S. Mayors, June 2226, 2001
^ Earth Charter Initiative (March 26, 2009): "Youth Organizations that have endorsed the Earth Charter".
^ "SGI and the Earth Charter", SGI Resources, May 3, 2000
^ "Endorse the Earth Charter, 2002 Action of Immediate Witness", Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations
^ "Baha'is participate in interreligious dialogue on faith and ecology", Baha'i World News Service, September 6, 2001
^ "World Pantheist Movements Help Centre", World Pantheist Movement website, retrieved March 9, 2010.
^ Leadership Conference of Women Religious (August 24, 2004): "2004 Resolutions" (press release)
^ Diocese of Newark, "135th Annual Convention Resolutions", p. 7,January 31, 2009
^ "Mayor Hsu endorsed the Earth Charter with 15 Miss Globalcities", Tainan City Government news bulltetin, January 19, 2007
^ "Council passes Earth Charter", Rebecca Barrett, Corvallis Gazette-Times, April 17, 2006
^ "Resolution 61,007-NS", Berkeley City Council, March 27, 2001
^ "Committee of the Whole Meeting Minutes", City of Pickering, Canada, July 22, 2002
^ "Earth Charter Supported in Middlebury Meeting", middleburycampus.com, March 13, 2002
^ one page organization summary, Engineers Without Borders  International, 2009
^ greenpartyofbotswanna.com. Retrieved February 25, 2009.
^ Partnerships , African Conservation Foundation. Retrieved February 25, 2009.
^ Earth Charter Initiative. September 2008: The Earth Charter Initiative Handbook, p.47.
External links[edit]
Wikiquote has quotations related to: Earth Charter
Earth Charter Initiative official website
Earth Charter Community Network
Text of the Earth Charter
Earth Charter Future-Actions & Perspectives of an Earth Child
American chapter of the Earth Charter Initiative
YES! Questions for Students: Earth Charter teaching materials for classrooms.
Earth Charter Community Action Tool
v
t
e
Globalization
Books
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Outline
Studies
Terms
Writers
Aspects
Alter-globalization
Anti-globalization
Counter-hegemonic globalization
Cultural globalization
Deglobalization
Democratic globalization
Economic globalization
Environmental globalization
Financial globalization
Global citizenship
education
Global governance
Global health
History of globalization
archaic
early modern
Military globalization
Political globalization
Trade globalization
Workforce globalization
Issues
Global
Disease
Digital divide
Labor arbitrage
Population
Warming
Water crisis
Other
Brain drain
reverse
Climate change
Climate justice
Development aid
Economic inequality
Endangered languages
Fair trade
Forced migration
Human rights
Illicit financial flows
Invasive species
Investor-state disputes
New international division of labour
NorthSouth divide
Offshoring
Race to the bottom
pollution havens
Transnational crime
McDonaldization
Westernization
American imperialism
British Empire
World war
Theories
Capital accumulation
Dependency
Development
Earth system
Fiscal localism
Modernization
ecological
history of
Primitive accumulation
Social change
World history
World-systems
Notable
scholars
Samir Amin
Arjun Appadurai
K. Anthony Appiah
Daniele Archibugi
Giovanni Arrighi
Ravi Batra
Jean Baudrillard
Zygmunt Bauman
Ulrich Beck
Walden Bello
Jagdish Bhagwati
Robert Brenner
Manuel Castells
Noam Chomsky
Alfred Crosby
Christopher Chase-Dunn
Andre G. Frank
Thomas Friedman
Anthony Giddens
Peter Gowan
Michael Hardt
David Harvey
David Held
Paul Hirst
Michael Hudson
Paul James
Ibn Khaldun
Naomi Klein
Antonio Negri
Jeffrey Sachs
Saskia Sassen
John R. Saul
Vandana Shiva
Joseph Stiglitz
John Urry
Immanuel Wallerstein
George Ritzer
Portal
Category
Commons
WikiProject
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1239
Cached time: 20161119062036
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.152 seconds
Real time usage: 0.203 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1391/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 63135/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 3246/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.047/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.73 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
136.181
1 - -total
37.23%
50.696
1 - Template:Citation_needed
36.33%
49.474
2 - Template:Fix
25.25%
34.380
3 - Template:Navbox
20.14%
27.424
1 - Template:Globalization
19.20%
26.146
2 - Template:Delink
15.25%
20.763
3 - Template:Category_handler
9.62%
13.103
1 - Template:Who
8.77%
11.949
1 - Template:Reflist
7.55%
10.278
1 - Template:Navbox_subgroups
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:552875-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119062035 and revision id 749119874
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Earth_Charter&oldid=749119874"
Categories: International sustainable developmentUnited Nations documents2000 in the United Nations2000 in the environmentGlobal policy organizationsHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2009All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from November 2009