EasternEurope
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Eastern Europe
Geographic features of Eastern Europe
Eastern Europe is the eastern part of the European continent. There is no consensus as to the precise area it refers to, partly because the term has a wide range of geopolitical, geographical, cultural, and socioeconomic connotations. There are "almost as many definitions of Eastern Europe as there are scholars of the region".[1] A related United Nations paper adds that "every assessment of spatial identities is essentially a social and cultural construct".[2]
One definition describes Eastern Europe as a cultural (and econo-cultural) entity: the region lying in Europe with main characteristics consisting in Byzantine, Orthodox, and some Turco-Islamic influences.[2][3] Another definition was created during the Cold War and used more or less synonymously with the term Eastern Bloc. A similar definition names the formerly communist European states outside the Soviet Union as Eastern Europe.[3] Historians and social scientists increasingly view such definitions as outdated or relegating,[4][5][6][7][8] but they are still heard in everyday speech and used for statistical purposes.[9][10][11]
Contents
1 Definitions
1.1 Geographical
1.2 International organisations
1.2.1 UN Statistics Division
1.2.2 European Union
1.2.3 Central Intelligence Agency
1.3 Political, military and economic
1.3.1 Historical
1.3.2 Contemporary
1.4 Cultural
1.5 Religious
1.6 Contemporary developments
1.6.1 Baltic states
1.6.2 Transcaucasia
1.6.3 Other former Soviet states
1.6.4 Central Europe
1.6.5 Southeastern Europe
2 History
2.1 Classical antiquity and medieval origins
2.2 Interwar years
2.3 World War II and the onset of the Cold War
2.3.1 Eastern Bloc during the Cold War to 1989
2.4 Since 1989
3 See also
4 Notes
5 Further reading
6 External links
Definitions[edit]
Several definitions of Eastern Europe exist today, but they often lack precision or are extremely general. These definitions vary both across cultures and among experts, even political scientists, recently becoming more and more imprecise.[12]
Geographical[edit]
The Ural Mountains, Ural River, and the Caucasus Mountains are the geographical land border of the eastern edge of Europe. In the west, however, the cultural and religious boundaries of "Eastern Europe" are subject to considerable overlap and, most importantly, have undergone historical fluctuations, which make a precise definition of the western boundaries of Eastern Europe and the geographical midpoint of Europe somewhat difficult.
International organisations[edit]
UN Statistics Division[edit]
Regions used for statistical processing purposes by the United Nations Statistics Division:
Northern Europe
Western Europe
Eastern Europe
Southern Europe
The United Nations Statistics Division developed a selection of geographical regions and groupings of countries and areas, which are or may be used in compilation of statistics. In this collection, the following ten countries were classified as Eastern Europe:[10][11] Belarus, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine. The assignment of countries or areas to specific groupings is for statistical convenience and does not imply any assumption regarding political or other affiliation of countries or territories by the United Nations.[13] The United Nations' definition encompasses most of the states which were once under the Soviet Union's realm of influence and were part of the Warsaw Pact.
Other agencies of the United Nations (like UNAIDS,[14] UNHCR,[15][16] ILO,[17] or UNICEF[18]) divide Europe into different regions and variously assign various states to those regions.
European Union[edit]
European sub-regions according to EuroVoc.
Eurovoc, a multilingual thesaurus maintained by the Publications Office of the European Union, provides entries for "23 EU languages"[19] (Bulgarian, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish) plus Serbian. Of these, those in italics are classified as "Eastern Europe" in this source.[citation needed] Other official web-pages of the European Union classify some of the above-mentioned countries as strictly Central European (Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Slovenia).[20][21][22][23][24]
Central Intelligence Agency[edit]
CIA World Factbook which defines Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkey as primarily or entirely in Asia, and Cyprus as in the Middle East:
Eastern Europe
Southeastern Europe
Transcontinental
CIA defines Eastern Europe as Belarus, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia (transcontinental), Turkey (transcontinental) and Ukraine.
Political, military and economic[edit]
Political situation in Europe during the Cold War.
Historical[edit]
One view of the present boundaries of Eastern Europe came into being during the final stages of World War II. The area eventually came to encompass all the European countries which were under Soviet influence. Countries which had communist governments in the postwar era (1945-1991), and neutral countries were classified by the nature of their political regimes.
The Cold War increased the number of reasons for the division of Europe into two parts along the borders of NATO and Warsaw Pact states. (See: the Cold War section).
The economic organisation connecting the countries was the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance.
Contemporary[edit]
In recent years, after the fall of the USSR, a few political and economic organisations emerged in the region of Eastern Europe, including the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), and more recently the Eurasian Economic Union.
Commonwealth of Independent States
Commonwealth of Independent States Free Trade Area
Eurasian Economic Union
Union State of Russia and Belarus
Baltic Assembly
GUAM
Cultural[edit]
Cultural view excludes from the definition of Eastern Europe states historically and culturally different, constituting part of the so-called Western world. This could potentially refer to various formerly communist countries of Central Europe, the Baltics, and the Balkans which have different political, religious, cultural, and economic histories from their eastern neighbors (e.g., Russia and Ukraine). (See: Classical antiquity and medieval origins section).
Cultural map of Europe by Stndiger Ausschuss fr geographische Namen.
Distribution of the Cyrillic script worldwide.
Countries where an East Slavic language is the national language
Religious[edit]
The EastWest Schism is the break of communion and theology between what are now the Eastern (Orthodox) and Western (Roman Catholic, as well as from the 16th century also Protestant) churches which began in the 11th century and lasts until this very day. It divided Christianity in Europe, and consequently the world, into Western Christianity and Eastern Christianity.
Division between the Eastern and Western Churches[25][26]
Religious division in 1054[27]
Countries by percentage of Eastern Orthodox Christians (Eastern Church).
Countries by percentage of Catholics(Western Churches).
Countries by percentage of Protestants (Western Churches).
Contemporary developments[edit]
The fall of the Iron Curtain brought the end of the EastWest division in Europe,[28] but this geopolitical concept is sometimes still used for quick reference by the media.[29]
Baltic states[edit]
Main article: Baltic states
Most sources[citation needed] place the Baltic states in Northern Europe whereas the CIA World Factbook places the region in Eastern Europe.
Estonia
Latvia
Lithuania
Transcaucasia[edit]
Main article: Transcaucasia
The Transcaucasia nations of Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Georgia are included in definitions of Eastern Europe and/or histories of Eastern Europe. They are located in the transition zone of Eastern Europe and Western Asia. They participate in the European Union's Eastern Partnership Program, and are members of the Council of Europe, which specifies that all three are geographically in Asia but have political and cultural connections to Turkey and Europe. Georgia has sought membership in NATO and the EU.
The World Factbook and National Geographic Society atlases, and the United Nations Statistics Division, have always listed and/or shown the three states within Asia. As with the Baltic states, the Transcaucasian nations differ somewhat, with Christian Georgia and Armenia culturally oriented more toward Eastern Europe, and Shiite Muslim Azerbaijan culturally oriented more toward the Asian Middle East.
Georgia
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Other former Soviet states[edit]
Several other former Soviet republics may be considered part of Eastern Europe
Russia is a transcontinental country where the Western part is in Eastern Europe and the rest is in Asia.
Kazakhstan is a transcontinental country, predominantly in Asia, with a relatively small section in Europe.
Ukraine
Belarus
Moldova
Central Europe[edit]
The term "Central Europe" is often used by historians to designate former Holy Roman Empire and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, including modern-day Belarus and Ukraine, and thus overlapping with "Eastern Europe." The following countries are labeled Eastern European by some commentators and as Central European by others.[30][31][32]
Austria
Czech Republic
Croatia[33][34][35][36][37]
Hungary
Poland
Slovakia
Slovenia (most often placed in Central Europe but sometimes in Southeastern Europe)[38]
Southeastern Europe[edit]
Main articles: Southeast Europe, Balkans, and Southern Europe
Most Southeastern European states did not belong to the Eastern Bloc (save Bulgaria, Romania, and for a short time, Albania) although some of them were represented in the Cominform. Only some of them can be included in the classical former political definition of Eastern Europe. Some can be considered part of Southern Europe.[10] However, most can be characterized as belonging to South-eastern Europe, but some of them may also be included in Central Europe or Eastern Europe.[39]
Albania belongs to Southeastern Europe.
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria is in the central part of the Balkans; geographically belongs to Southern/Southeastern Europe and sometimes included in the North-Eastern Mediterranean, but can also be included in Eastern Europe in the Cold War.
Cyprus is geographically situated in the eastern Mediterranean, off the coast of west Asian mainland, however due to its political, cultural, and historical ties to Europe, it is often regarded as part of Southern, and Southeastern Europe.
Greece is a rather unusual case and may be included, variously, in Western,[40] Southeastern[41] or Southern Europe.[42][43]
Macedonia belongs to Southeastern Europe.
Montenegro belongs to Southeastern Europe.
Romania can be included in Eastern Europe in the Cold War context, but is commonly referred to as belonging to Southeastern Europe[44] or Central Europe.[45]
Serbia is included in notions of Southeastern, Southern and Central Europe
Turkey lies partially in Southeastern Europe: only the region known as East Thrace, which constitutes 3% of the country's total land mass, lies west of the Dardanelles, the Sea of Marmara, and the Bosphorus.
Disputed states:
Kosovo belongs to Southeastern Europe.
Northern Cyprus
History[edit]
Classical antiquity and medieval origins[edit]
Further information: History of the Caucasus
Ancient kingdoms of the region included Orontid Armenia Albania, Colchis and Iberia. These kingdoms were either from the start, or later on incorporated into various Iranian empires, including the Achaemenid Persian, Parthian, and Sassanid Persian Empires.[46] Parts of the Balkans and more northern areas were ruled by the Achaemenid Persians as well, including Thrace, Paeonia, Macedon, and most of the Black Sea coastal regions of Romania, Ukraine, and Russia.[47][48] Owing to the rivalry between Parthian Iran and Rome, and later Byzantium and the Sassanid Persians, the former would invade the region several times, although it was never able to hold the region, unlike the Sassanids who ruled over most of the Caucasus during their entire rule.[49]
The earliest known distinctions between east and west in Europe originate in the history of the Roman Republic. As the Roman domain expanded, a cultural and linguistic division appeared between the mainly Greek-speaking eastern provinces which had formed the highly urbanized Hellenistic civilization. In contrast the western territories largely adopted the Latin language. This cultural and linguistic division was eventually reinforced by the later political eastwest division of the Roman Empire. The division between these two spheres was enhanced during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages by a number of events. The Western Roman Empire collapsed starting the Early Middle Ages. By contrast, the Eastern Roman Empire, mostly known as the Byzantine Empire, managed to survive and even to thrive for another 1,000 years. The rise of the Frankish Empire in the west, and in particular the Great Schism that formally divided Eastern and Western Christianity, enhanced the cultural and religious distinctiveness between Eastern and Western Europe. Much of Eastern Europe was invaded and occupied by the Mongols.
The conquest of the Byzantine Empire, center of the Eastern Orthodox Church, by the Ottoman Empire in the 15th century, and the gradual fragmentation of the Holy Roman Empire (which had replaced the Frankish empire) led to a change of the importance of Roman Catholic/Protestant vs. Eastern Orthodox concept in Europe. Armour points out that the Cyrillic alphabet use is not a strict determinant for Eastern Europe, where from Croatia to Poland and everywhere in between, the Latin alphabet is used.[50] Greece's status as the cradle of Western civilization and an integral part of the Western world in the political, cultural and economic spheres has led to it being nearly always classified as belonging not to Eastern, but to Southern and/or Western Europe.[51] During the late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries Eastern Europe enjoyed a relative high standard of living. This period is also called the east-central European golden age of around 1600.[52]
Interwar years[edit]
A major result of the First World War was the breakup of the Russian, Austro-Hungarian, and Ottoman empires, as well as partial losses to the German Empire. A surge of ethnic nationalism created a series of new states in Eastern Europe, validated by the Versailles Treaty of 1919. Poland was reconstituted after the partitions of the 1790s had divided it between Germany, Austria, and Russia. New countries included Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Ukraine (which was soon absorbed by the Soviet Union), Czechoslovakia, and Yugoslavia. Austria and Hungary had much reduced boundaries. Romania, Bulgaria and Albania likewise were independent. All the countries were heavily rural, with little industry and only a few urban centers. Nationalism was the dominant force but most of the countries had ethnic or religious minorities who felt threatened by majority elements. Nearly all became democratic in the 1920s, but all of them (except Czechoslovakia and Finland) gave up democracy during the depression years of the 1930s, in favor of autocratic or strong-man or single party states. The new states were unable to form stable military alliances, and one by one were too weak to stand up against Nazi Germany or the Soviet Union, which took them over between 1938 and 1945.
World War II and the onset of the Cold War[edit]
Pre-1989 division between the "West" (grey) and "Eastern Bloc" (orange) superimposed on current borders:
Russia (the former RSFSR) (dark orange)
Other countries formerly part of the USSR (medium orange)
Members of the Warsaw Pact (light orange)
Other former Communist states not aligned with Moscow (lightest orange)
Russia, defeated in the First World War, lost territory as the Baltics and Poland made good their independence. The region was the main battlefield in the Second World War (193945), with German and Soviet armies sweeping back and forth, with millions of Jews killed by the Nazis, and millions of others killed by disease, starvation, and military action, or executed after being deemed as politically dangerous.[53] During the final stages of World War II the future of Eastern Europe was decided by the overwhelming power of the Soviet Red Army, as it swept the Germans aside. It did not reach Yugoslavia and Albania however. Finland was free but forced to be neutral in the upcoming Cold War. The region fell to Soviet control and Communist governments were imposed. Yugoslavia and Albania had their own Communist regimes. The Eastern Bloc with the onset of the Cold War in 1947 was mostly behind the Western European countries in economic rebuilding and progress. Winston Churchill, in his famous "Sinews of Peace" address of March 5, 1946 at Westminster College in Fulton, Missouri, stressed the geopolitical impact of the "iron curtain":
From Stettin in the Baltic to Trieste in the Adriatic an iron curtain has descended across the Continent. Behind that line lie all the capitals of the ancient states of Central and Eastern Europe. Warsaw, Berlin, Prague, Vienna, Budapest, Belgrade, Bucharest, and Sofia.
The political borders of Eastern Europe were largely defined by the Cold War from the end of World War II to 1989. The Iron Curtain separated the members of the Warsaw Pact (in red) from the European members of NATO (in blue). Dark grey indicates members of the Non-Aligned Movement and light grey indicates other neutral countries.
Eastern Bloc during the Cold War to 1989[edit]
Further information: Eastern Bloc
The Soviet secret police, the NKVD, working in collaboration with local communists, created secret police forces using leadership trained in Moscow. As soon as the Red Army had expelled the Germans, this new secret police arrived to arrest political enemies according to prepared lists. The national Communists then took power in a normally gradualist manner, backed by the Soviets in many, but not all, cases. They took control of the Interior Ministries, which controlled the local police. They confiscated and redistributed farmland. Next the Soviets and their agents took control of the mass media, especially radio, as well as the education system. Third the communists seized control of or replaced the organizations of civil society, such as church groups, sports, youth groups, trade unions, farmers organizations, and civic organizations. Finally they engaged in large scale ethnic cleansing, moving ethnic minorities far away, often with high loss of life. After a year or two, the communists took control of private businesses and monitored the media and churches. For a while, cooperative non-Communist parties were tolerated. The communists had a natural reservoir of popularity in that they had destroyed Hitler and the Nazi invaders. Their goal was to guarantee long-term working-class solidarity.[54][55] Eastern Europe after 1945 usually meant all the European countries liberated and then occupied by the Soviet army. It included the German Democratic Republic (also known as East Germany), formed by the Soviet occupation zone of Germany. All the countries in Eastern Europe adopted communist modes of control. These countries were officially independent from the Soviet Union, but the practical extent of this independence  except in Yugoslavia, Albania, and to some extent Romania  was quite limited. Under pressure from Stalin these nations rejected grants from the American Marshall plan. Instead they participated in the Molotov Plan which later evolved into the Comecon (Council for Mutual Economic Assistance). When NATO was created in 1949, most countries of Eastern Europe became members of the opposing Warsaw Pact, forming a geopolitical concept that became known as the Eastern Bloc.
Following the disappearance of the Iron Curtain in 1989, the political situation changed and some of the former members of the Warsaw Pact gradually joined NATO.
Current members
Candidate countries
Promised invitation
Membership not goal
Undeclared intent
First and foremost was the Soviet Union (which included the modern-day territories of Russia, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Moldova). Other countries dominated by the Soviet Union were the German Democratic Republic, People's Republic of Poland, Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, People's Republic of Hungary, People's Republic of Bulgaria, and Socialist Republic of Romania.
The Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY; formed after World War II and before its later dismemberment) was not a member of the Warsaw Pact. It was a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, an organization created in an attempt to avoid being assigned to either the NATO or Warsaw Pact blocs. The movement was demonstratively independent from both the Soviet Union and the Western bloc for most of the Cold War period, allowing Yugoslavia and its other members to act as a business and political mediator between the blocs.
The Socialist People's Republic of Albania broke with the Soviet Union in the early 1960s as a result of the Sino-Soviet split, aligning itself instead with China. Albania formally left the Warsaw pact in September 1968 after the suppression of the Prague spring. When China established diplomatic relations with the United States in 1978, Albania also broke away from China. Albania and especially Yugoslavia were not unanimously appended to the Eastern Bloc, as they were neutral for a large part of the Cold War period.
Since 1989[edit]
2004-2007 EU enlargements Cold War Iron Curtain
existing members
new members in 2004
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Estonia
Hungary
Latvia
Lithuania
Malta
Poland
Slovakia
Slovenia
existing members
new members in 2007
Bulgaria
Romania
US-led NATO
USSR-led Warsaw Pact
(dissolved in 1990/1991)
Bulgaria
Czechoslovakia
East Germany
Hungary
Poland
Romania
With the fall of the Iron Curtain in 1989, the political landscape of the Eastern Bloc, and indeed the world, changed. In the German reunification, the Federal Republic of Germany peacefully absorbed the German Democratic Republic in 1990. In 1991, COMECON, the Warsaw Pact, and the Soviet Union were dissolved. Many European nations which had been part of the Soviet Union regained their independence (Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, as well as the Baltic States of Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia). Czechoslovakia peacefully separated into the Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993. Many countries of this region joined the European Union, namely Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia.
See also[edit]
Geography portal
Europe portal
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Eastern Europe.
Enlargement of the European Union
Geography of the Soviet Union
N-ost
Slavic peoples
Russian explorers
European Union
Midzymorze
European geography:
Central Europe
Northern Europe
Southeast Europe
Western Europe
Central and Eastern Europe
East-Central Europe
European Russia
Geographical midpoint of Europe
Eastern European Group
Notes[edit]
^ "The Balkans", Global Perspectives: A Remote Sensing and World Issues Site. Wheeling Jesuit University/Center for Educational Technologies, 19992002.
^ a b A Subdivision of Europe into Larger Regions by Cultural Criteria prepared by Peter Jordan, the framework of the Permanent Committee on Geographical Names (StAGN), Vienna, Austria, 2006
^ a b Ramet, Sabrina P. (1998). Eastern Europe: politics, culture, and society since 1939. Indiana University Press. p.15. ISBN0253212561. Retrieved 2011-10-05This definition is fulfilled by Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Montenegro, Kosovo, Greece, Turkey, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
^ "The geopolitical conditions (...) are now a thing of the past, and some specialists today think that Eastern Europe has outlived its usefulness as a phrase.""Regions, Regionalism, Eastern Europe by Steven Cassedy". New Dictionary of the History of Ideas, Charles Scribner's Sons. 2005. Retrieved 2010-01-31
^ "The Economist: Eastern Europe a bogus term - South Eastern Europe - The Sofia Echo".
^ "One very common, but now outdated, definition of Eastern Europe was the Soviet-dominated communist countries of Europe."http://www.cotf.edu/earthinfo/balkans/BKdef.html
^ "Too much writing on the region has  consciously or unconsciously  clung to an outdated image of 'Eastern Europe', desperately trying to patch together political and social developments from Budapest to Bukhara or Tallinn to Tashkent without acknowledging that this Cold War frame of reference is coming apart at the seams. Central Europe Review: Re-Viewing Central Europe By Sean Hanley, Kazi Stastna and Andrew Stroehlein, 1999
^ Berglund, Sten; Ekman, Joakim; Aarebrot, Frank H. (2004). The handbook of political change in Eastern Europe. Edward Elgar Publishing [via Google Books]. p.2. ISBN9781781954324. Retrieved 2011-10-05. The term 'Eastern Europe' is ambiguous and in many ways outdated.
^ [1] Archived April 3, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.. Eurovoc.europa.eu. Retrieved on 2015-03-04.
^ a b c "United Nations Statistics Division- Standard Country and Area Codes Classifications (M49)".
^ a b Population Division, DESA, United Nations: World Population Ageing 1950-2050
^ Drake, Miriam A. (2005) Encyclopedia of Library and Information Science, CRC Press
^ "United Nations Statistics Division- Standard Country and Area Codes Classifications (M49)".
^ "Countries".
^ United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "UNHCR - Northern, Western, Central and Southern Europe".
^ United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "UNHCR - Eastern Europe".
^ "ILO".
^ "Information by country - CEE/CIS and Baltic States". UNICEF.
^ "EuroVoc". European Union. Retrieved 2016-01-30.
^ "EUROPA - Hungary in the EU". 5 November 2010.
^ "EUROPA - Czech Republic in the EU". 5 November 2010.
^ "EUROPA - Poland in the EU". 5 November 2010.
^ "EUROPA - Slovakia in the EU". 5 November 2010.
^ "EUROPA - Slovenia in the EU". 2016-02-17. Retrieved 2016-03-09.
^ "Atlas of the Historical Geography of the Holy Land". Rbedrosian.com. Retrieved 23 February 2013.
^ "home.comcast.net". Archived from the original on February 13, 2013. Retrieved 23 February 2013.
^ Dragan Bruji (2005). "Vodi kroz svet Vizantije (Guide to the Byzantine World)". Beograd. p.51.[dead link]
^ V. Martynov, The End of East-West Division But Not the End of History, UN Chronicle, 2000 (available online[dead link])
^ "Migrant workers: What we know". BBC News. 2007-08-21.
^ Wallace, W. The Transformation of Western Europe London, Pinter, 1990
^ Huntington, Samuel The Clash of Civilizations Simon & Schuster, 1996
^ Johnson, Lonnie Central Europe: Enemies, Neighbours, Friends Oxford University Press, USA, 2001
^ Lonnie Johnson, Central Europe: Enemies, Neighbors, Friends, Oxford University Pres
^ "In the Heavy Shadow of the Ukraine/Russia Crisis, page 10" (PDF). European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. September 2014. Retrieved 15 January 2015.
^ "UNHCR in Central Europe". UNCHR.
^ "Central European Green Corridors - Fast charging cross-border infrastructure for electric vehicles, connecting Austria, Slovakia, Slovenia, Germany and Croatia" (PDF). Central European Green Corridors. October 2014.
^ "Interreg CENTRAL EUROPE Homepage". Interreg CENTRAL EUROPE.
^ Armstrong, Werwick. Anderson, James (2007). "Borders in Central Europe: From Conflict to Cooperation". Geopolitics of European Union Enlargement: The Fortress Empire. Routledge. p.165. ISBN978-1-134-30132-4. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Bideleux and Jeffries (1998) A History of Eastern Europe: Crisis and Change
^ inter alia, Peter John, Local Governance in Western Europe, 2001
^ Greek Ministry of Tourism Travel Guide, General Information
^ "Greece Location - Geography". indexmundi.com. Retrieved 2014-12-07.
^ "UNdata | country profile | Greece". data.un.org. Retrieved 2014-12-07.
^ Energy Statistics for the U.S. Government Archived February 5, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "7 Invitees - Romania".
^ Rapp, Stephen H. (2003), Studies In Medieval Georgian Historiography: Early Texts And Eurasian Contexts, pp. 292-294. Peeters Bvba ISBN 90-429-1318-5.
^ The Oxford Classical Dictionary by Simon Hornblower and Antony Spawforth,ISBN 0-19-860641-9,"page 1515,"The Thracians were subdued by the Persians by 516"
^ "A Companion to Ancient Macedonia". Retrieved 22 April 2015.
^ "An Ethnohistorical Dictionary of the Russian and Soviet Empires". Retrieved 22 April 2015.
^ Armour, Ian D. 2013. A History of Eastern Europe 17401918: Empires, Nations and Modernisation. London: Bloomsbury Academic. p. 23. ISBN 978-1849664882
^ See, inter alia, Norman Davies, Europe: a History, 2010, Eve Johansson, Official Publications of Western Europe, Volume 1, 1984, Thomas Greer and Gavin Lewis, A Brief History of the Western World, 2004
^ Baten, Jrg (2016). A History of the Global Economy. From 1500 to the Present. Cambridge University Press. p.46. ISBN9781107507180.
^ Timothy Snyder, Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin (2011) excerpt and text search
^ Anne Applebaum (2012). Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe, 1944-1956. Random House Digital, Inc. pp.3133. ISBN9780385536431.
^ Also Anne Applebaum, Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe, 19441956 introduction, pp xxixxxxi online at Amazon.com
Further reading[edit]
Applebaum, Anne. Iron Curtain: The Crushing of Eastern Europe, 19441956 (2012)
Berend, Ivn T. Decades of Crisis: Central and Eastern Europe before World War II (2001)
Frankel, Benjamin. The Cold War 1945-1991. Vol. 2, Leaders and other important figures in the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, China, and the Third World (1992), 379pp of biographies.
Frucht, Richard, ed. Encyclopedia of Eastern Europe: From the Congress of Vienna to the Fall of Communism (2000)
Gal, Susan and Gail Kligman, The Politics of Gender After Socialism, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2000.
Ghodsee, Kristen R.. Muslim Lives in Eastern Europe: Gender, Ethnicity and the Transformation of Islam in Postsocialist Bulgaria. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2009.
Ghodsee, Kristen R.. Lost in Transition: Ethnographies of Everyday Life After Communism, Duke University Press, 2011.
Held, Joseph, ed. The Columbia History of Eastern Europe in the Twentieth Century (1993)
Jelavich, Barbara. History of the Balkans, Vol. 1: Eighteenth and Nineteenth Centuries (1983); History of the Balkans, Vol. 2: Twentieth Century (1983)
Lipton, David (2002). "Eastern Europe". In David R. Henderson (ed.). Concise Encyclopedia of Economics (1st ed.). Library of Economics and Liberty. OCLC317650570, 50016270, 163149563
Myant, Martin; Drahokoupil, Jan (2010). Transition Economies: Political Economy in Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia. Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN978-0-470-59619-7
Ramet, Sabrina P. Eastern Europe: Politics, Culture, and Society Since 1939 (1999)
Roskin, Michael G. The Rebirth of East Europe (4th ed. 2001); 204pp
Simons, Thomas W. Eastern Europe in the Postwar World (1991)
Snyder, Timothy. Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin (2011)
Swain, Geoffrey and Nigel Swain, Eastern Europe Since 1945 (3rd ed. 2003)
Verdery, Katherine. What Was Socialism and What Comes Next? Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1996.
Walters, E. Garrison. The Other Europe: Eastern Europe to 1945 (1988) 430pp; country-by-country coverage
Wolchik, Sharon L. and Jane L. Curry, eds. Central and East European Politics: From Communism to Democracy (2nd ed. 2010), 432pp
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Eastern Europe.
Wikiquote has quotations related to: East/Central Europe
Eastern Europe Economic Data
v
t
e
Sovereign states and dependencies of Europe
Sovereign states
Albania
Andorra
Armenia1
Austria
Azerbaijan1
Belarus
Belgium
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Croatia
Cyprus1
Czech Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia1
Germany
Greece1
Hungary
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan1
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macedonia
Malta
Moldova
Monaco
Montenegro
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russia1
San Marino
Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Spain2
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey1
Ukraine
United Kingdom
Vatican City
States with limited
recognition
Abkhazia1
Kosovo
Nagorno-Karabakh1
Northern Cyprus1
South Ossetia1
Transnistria
Dependencies and
other territories
Denmark
Faroe Islands
constituent country
Finland
land Islands
autonomous region
Norway
Jan Mayen
Svalbard
unincorporated areas
United Kingdom
Akrotiri and Dhekelia1
sovereign base areas
Gibraltar
overseas territory
Guernsey
Isle of Man
Jersey
crown dependencies
1 Partially in Asia, or entirely in Asia with cultural links to Europe. 2 Partially in Africa
v
t
e
Europearticles
History
Chronology
Prehistory
Classical antiquity
Late Antiquity
Middle Ages
Early modernity
Pax Europaea
Crisis situations and protests since 2000
By topic
Military
Sovereignty
predecessor states
Geography
Areas and populations
Largest metropolitan areas
Cities
Extreme points
Geology
Islands
Lakes
Mountains
Rivers
Sovereign states and dependent territories
by population
Villages
Politics
Eurosphere
International organisations
Integration
Law
Politics
Post-Soviet Europe
Transatlantic relations
Intergovernmental
Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS)
Council of Europe (CoE)
Collective Security Treaty Organisation (CSTO)
GUAM Organization
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)
Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
statistics
European Union
Economy
relations
free trade agreements
Education
European Economic Area (EEA)
European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP)
European Union Customs Union (EUCU)
Eurozone
Foreign relations
Members
enlargement
Politics
Schengen Area
Statistics
Visa policy
Economy
History
Financial (and social) rankings
Free trade areas
Energy
Telecommunications
Transport
Intergovernmental
Central European Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA)
Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia (CUBKR)
Eurasian Economic Community (EAEC)
European Free Trade Association (EFTA)
Sovereign states by
Average wage
Budget revenues
per capita
Corruption index
GDP (nominal)
per capita
GDP (PPP)
per capita
GNI (nominal) per capita
GNI (PPP) per capita
HDI
Internet users (%)
Minimum wage
Press Freedom Index
Unemployment rate (%)
Health expense per capita
Military spending (%)
Childhood population (%)
Urban population (%)
Life expectancy
Electricity use per capita
Society
Etiquette
Social (and financial) rankings
Languages
endangered
Universities
Bologna Process
Erasmus
Culture
Art
painting
sculpture
Architecture
Capital of Culture
Cinema
film festivals
Classical music
Cuisine
Dance
Literature
Philosophy
Religion
Christianity
Islam
Judaism
Sport
Symbols
Demographics
Ageing
Ethnic groups
genetic history
Immigration
Life expectancy
Retirement
Outline
Index
Category
Portal
Maps
v
t
e
Regions of the world
Africa
Mediterranean
Northern
Gibraltar Arc
Maghreb (Barbary Coast)
Barbara (region)
Atlas Mountains
Sahara
Sahel
Egypt (Upper Egypt, Middle Egypt, Lower Egypt, Bashmur)
Nubia (Lower Nubia)
Nile Valley
Nile Delta
Middle East
Sub-Saharan
Western
East
East African Rift: Great Rift Valley, Western or Albertine Rift Valley, Eastern or Gregory Rift Valley, Southern Rift Valley, Rift Valley Lakes (Great Lakes)
Central
Mittelafrika
Southern
Horn
Ethiopian Highlands (Roof of Africa)
Sudan (region)
Guinea region
Rhodesia (region) (Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia)
Negroland
Mayombe
Igboland (Mbaise)
Maputaland
Congo Basin
Chad Basin
Swahili coast
Pepper Coast
Gold Coast
Slave Coast
Ivory Coast
Tropical Africa
Islands
Madagascar
Anglophone Africa
Francophone Africa
Lusophone Africa
Arabophone Africa
North
America
Contiguous United States
Northern
Pacific Northwest
Northeastern United States
New England
Midwest
Mid-Atlantic
Western United States
Southwest
Llano Estacado
Mountain States
South Central United States
Southern United States
East Coast
West Coast
Gulf Coast
Bible Belt
Rust Belt
Appalachia
Great Plains
Great Lakes
Eastern Canada
Western Canada
Canadian Prairies
Northern Canada
Atlantic Canada
North Mexico
Gulf of Mexico
West Indies
Caribbean (Greater Antilles, Lesser Antilles, Lucayan Archipelago
Western Caribbean Zone
Central
Isthmus of Panama
Mosquito Coast
Middle
Mesoamerica
Aridoamerica
Oasisamerica
Anglo
French
Latin(Hispanic)
American Cordillera
Ring of Fire
South
America
Southern
Northern(Guianan states)
West South America (Andean States)
West Indies
Patagonia
Pampas
Pantanal
Amazon
Amazonia
Altiplano
Andes
Brazilian Highlands
Caribbean South America
Gran Chaco
Llanos
Atacama Desert
Cerrado
Latin(Hispanic)
American Cordillera
Ring of Fire
Asia
Central
Aral Sea
Aralkum Desert
Caspian Sea
Dead Sea
Transoxiana (Turan)
Greater Khorasan
Ariana
Khwarezm
Sistan
Kazakhstania
Far East
Russian Far East
Extreme North
Eurasian Steppe
PonticCaspian steppe
Wild Fields
Yedisan
Muravsky Trail
Ural (region)
Volga region
Idel-Ural
Kolyma
Transbaikal
Pryazovia
Bjarmaland
Kuban
Zalesye
Ingria
Novorossiya
Gornaya Shoriya
Tulgas
Siberia
Eastern
Northeastern
Inner Asia
Manchuria
Outer Manchuria
Tibet
Guanzhong
Huizhou (region)
Wu (region)
Ordos Loop
Yangtze River Delta
Northern
Southern
Southeastern
Mainland (Indochina)
Maritime (Malay Archipelago)
East Indies (Greater India)
Indian subcontinent
Himalayas
Mahabharata Range
Hindu Kush
Ganges Basin
Ganges Delta
Balochistan
Rajputana
Punjab (region)
Thar Desert
Indus Valley
Indus River Delta
Indo-Gangetic Plain
Eastern Coastal Plains
Western Coastal Plains
Hindi Belt
Doab
Great Rann of Kutch
Little Rann of Kutch
Deccan plateau
Coromandel Coast
Konkan
Lakshadweep
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Maldive Islands
Western
Red Sea
Middle East (Near East)
Arabian Peninsula
Persian Gulf
Pirate Coast
Najd
Hejaz
Tihamah
Eastern Arabia
Southern Arabia
Hadhramaut
Mediterranean Sea
Eastern Mediterranean
Zagros Mountains
TigrisEuphrates river system
Mesopotamia (Upper Mesopotamia, Lower Mesopotamia, Sawad)
Canaan
Aram (Biblical region)
Levant (Mashriq)
Southern Levant
Levantine Sea
Gaza Strip
West Bank
Galilee
Gilead
Judea
Samaria
Arabah
Transjordan
Jordan Rift Valley
Sinai Peninsula
Caucasus
Transcaucasia
Arabian Desert
Syrian Desert
Fertile Crescent
Syria (region) (Greater Syria)
Palestine (region)
Anatolia (Asia Minor)
Cilicia
Cappadocia
Asia-Pacific
Tropical Asia
Ring of Fire
Europe
Central
Mitteleuropa
Danubian countries
Prussia (region)
Lithuania Minor
Northern
Nordic
Northwestern
Scandinavia
Scandinavian Peninsula
Fennoscandian Peninsula
Spmi
Eastern
Baltic
Crimea
Donbass
Sloboda Ukraine
Southeastern
Balkans (Balkan Peninsula)
North Caucasus
Kabardia
Southern Russia
European Russia
Middle East
Southern
Italian Peninsula
Insular Italy
Iberia
Gibraltar Arc
Southeastern
Mediterranean
Western
Alpine countries
Benelux
Low Countries
Northwestern
British Isles
Channel Islands
Germanic
Romance
Celtic
Slavic countries
Eurasian Steppe
PonticCaspian steppe
Wild Fields
Pannonian Basin
Volhynia
Karelia (East Karelia, Karelia (historical province of Finland))
Oceania
Australasia
Australia
Capital Country
Eastern Australia/East Coast of Australia (Eastern Seaboard)
Lake Eyre basin
MurrayDarling basin
Northern Australia
Nullarbor Plain
Outback
Southern Australia
Sunraysia
Great Victoria Desert
New Guinea
Zealandia
Pacific Islands
Micronesia
Melanesia
Polynesia
Polar
Antarctic
Arctic
Oceans
World (Sea)
Arctic
Atlantic
Indian
Pacific
Great Barrier Reef
Mariana Trench
Ring of Fire
Southern
Convergence
List of seas
Continents of the world/ List of seas/ Physical Earth
Authority control
WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 248539062
GND: 4075739-0
Coordinates: 500000N 300000E / 50.0000N 30.0000E / 50.0000; 30.0000
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1301
Cached time: 20161120203225
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.824 seconds
Real time usage: 1.035 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 9842/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 337260/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 92654/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 13/40
Expensive parser function count: 26/500
Lua time usage: 0.239/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 6.03 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
749.788
1 - -total
25.96%
194.662
2 - Template:Reflist
13.70%
102.693
1 - Template:Infobox_settlement
10.15%
76.125
26 - Template:Cite_web
10.07%
75.469
1 - Template:Europe_topics
9.47%
70.971
5 - Template:Navbox_with_striping
9.43%
70.726
1 - Template:Region_topics
8.76%
65.706
2 - Template:Infobox
8.03%
60.209
6 - Template:Navbox
7.45%
55.830
30 - Template:Flagcountry
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:37403-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120203223 and revision id 750609021
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Eastern_Europe&oldid=750609021"
Categories: Eastern EuropeRegions of EuropeHidden categories: Articles with inconsistent citation formatsWebarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2016Articles with dead external links from January 2016CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listPages using ISBN magic linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from January 2016Articles with unsourced statements from June 2015Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersCoordinates on Wikidata