Ecoforestry
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Ecoforestry has been defined as selection forestry or restoration forestry. The main idea of Ecoforestry is to maintain or restore the forest to standards where the forest may still be harvested for products on a sustainable basis.[1] Ecoforestry is forestry that emphasizes holistic practices which strive to protect and restore ecosystems rather than maximize economic productivity.[2] Sustainability of the forest also comes with uncertainties. There are other factors that may affect the forest furthermore than that of the harvesting. There are internal conditions such as effects of soil compaction, tree damage, disease, fire, and blow down that also directly affect the ecosystem.[3] These factors have to be taken into account when determining the sustainability of a forest. If these factors are added to the harvesting and production that comes out of the forest, then the forest will become less likely to survive, and will then become less sustainable.
Since the forest is considered an ecosystem, it is dependent on all of the living and non-living factors within itself. This is a major part of why the forest needs to be sustainable before it is harvested. For example, a tree would convert sunlight to sugars for respiration to keep the tree alive. The remains of the converted sugars is left in roots for consumption by the organisms surrounding the tree in the habitat. This shows the productivity of an ecosystem with its inhabitants.[4] Productivity within the ecosystem cannot come to fruition unless the forest is sustainable enough to be harvested. If all of the organisms of the ecosystem are non existent, the ecosystem itself will soon come to be non existent. Once that happens, there is no longer any forest to harvest from. The overall productivity of a system can be found in an equation where the Net Primary Production, or NPP, is equal to the Gross Primary Production, or GPP, minus the Respiration, or R. The formula is the NPP = GPP - R.[4] The NPP is the overall efficiency of the plants in the ecosystem. Through having a constant efficiency in NPP, the ecosystem is then more sustainable. The GPP refers to the rate of energy stored by photosynthesis in plants. The R refers to the maintenance and reproduction of plants from the energy expended.
Ecoforestry has many principles within the existence of itself. It covers sustainable development and the fair harvesting of the organisms living within the forest ecosystem. There have been many proposals of principles outlined for ecoforestry. They are covered over books, articles, and environmental agencies. All of the principles relate to the idea that in ecoforestry, less should be harvested, and diversity must be managed. Through harvesting less, there is enough biomass left in the forest, so that the forest may stay healthy and still stay maintained. It will grow at a sustainable level annually, and thus it will be able to still be harvested the following year. Through management of the diversity, species may cohabitate in an ecosystem where the forest may feed off of other species in its growth and production.[1] The Principles of Ecoforestry may be found below.
Contents
1 Principles of ecoforestry
2 See also
3 References
4 External links
Principles of ecoforestry[edit]
The principles of ecoforestry are:[4]
Number
Principle
1
One must consider retention. It must be the first consideration in any planned removal of trees from a stand. By placing retention at the beginning of a planned removal, one makes sure that they know what must be left to ensure the protection of such things as rare species, sites of native cultural significance, riparian zones.
2
Riparian zones should not be touched. It is a sensitive area, thus tree removal should not occur there. This protects the water quality. Water quality is protected by not altering the drainage pattern of the zones. No tree removal should take place in the most sensitive areas.
3
The composition and structures should be upheld so that forests may fully function. This may be subject to large old trees, snags, and large fallen trees. These pieces of the ecosystem are upheld through letting them grow and die out into a timber extraction area.
4
When removing trees, the lowest impact should be used. This means not compacting the soil in the forest and building small or no roads if at all possible. This takes away the disturbance that would be done to the foundation of the forests grounds.
5
Plan in terms of the needs of the larger watershed. The watershed zone plan designates areas where tree removal is not permitted. It also designates the areas where removal is possible, and the different types of removal available.
6
Prohibit clear cutting. Clear cutting is not ecologically correct. There are methods for cutting trees to maintain structure, and to allow the trees to cohabitate in a healthy ecosystem.
7
Select trees as candidates for removal by considering how abundant and redundant their structures and functions are to the rest of the forest as a whole, leaving potential wildlife trees (to become snags and coarse woody debris).
8
The forest should be allowed to regenerate trees through the seeds from the trees in the logged areas. This allows tree planting to be taken out of the ecoforestry principles, allowing a natural regeneration.
9
Ecological succession should be kept at all times. This will protect biological diversity. This even means eliminating the process of brush control.
10
No slash burning. Fire may be used as a tool in landscapes that have a history of naturally occurring fires. Although this may be true, fire should still be used with caution.
11
No pesticide use. The forest needs disease, insects, and shrub/herb vegetation. They are essential parts of a fully functioning forest, even though they involve the forests decay in some cases. They are natural parts that allow the ecosystem to operate as a whole.
12
Maintain and restore topsoil quality. This can be done through leaving sufficiently coarse and small debris on the forest grounds.
13
Maintain beauty and other natural aesthetic qualities in the visual, sound, and odor landscapes. This includes not taking away the wildlife, the plants, or structural layout of the ecosystem.
14
Always look at the forest as a whole. Each part of the forest contributes to its overall needs and health. That is how the forest would have survived without human interference.
15
Rely more on people and markets. Use accounting and budgeting as a solution to rely less on the destruction or harvesting from the forests.
16
Dont do wrong. If it feels wrong, then it is probably wrong. Dont allow ignorance to persevere. Recognize that the ecosystem needs tending to. If the forest is not preserved, then it cannot be harvested forever.
See also[edit]
Forestry portal
Sustainable development portal
Environment portal
Ecology portal
Arid Forest Research Institute
Conservation biology
Conservation communities
Conservation ethic
Conservation movement
Close to nature forestry
Ecology
Environmental protection
Habitat conservation
Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education
References[edit]
^ a b Rastogi J. (Summer 2003). An introduction to ecoforestry. Ecoforestry, 18(2), 1-4.
^ Hammond H. (Fall 2003). Ecosystem-based management is high-yield forestry. Ecoforestry, 18(3), 6-8.
^ Copland M. (Spring 2003). [1]. Ecoforestry, 18(1), 3-10.
^ a b c Dregson, A. R., & Taylor, D. M. (1997). Ecoforestry. Gabriola Island, BC: New Society Publishers.
External links[edit]
Ecoforestry Institute Society
Trust for Sustainable Forestry
Living Forest Communities
Ecoforestry in Papua New Guinea case study
"What is ecoforestry?"
v
t
e
Forestry
Outline
Index
Forest areas
Ministries
Research institutes
Colleges
Journals
Arbor Day
Types
Agroforestry(dehesa)
Analog forestry
Bamboo forestry
Close to nature forestry
Community forestry
Ecoforestry
Energy forestry
Mycoforestry
Permaforestry
Plantation forestry
Social forestry
Sustainable forestry
Urban forestry
World forestry
Ecology and
management
Afforestation
Arboriculture
Controlled burn
Dendrology
Ecological thinning
Even-aged management
Fire ecology
Forest
informatics
IPM
inventory
governance
law
old-growth
pathology
protection
restoration
secondary
transition
Forest certification
ATFS
CFS
FSC
PEFC
SFI
SmartWood
Woodland Carbon Code
Growth and yield modelling
Horticulture(GM trees)
i-Tree
Reforestation(urban)
Silviculture
Sustainable management
Tree
allometry
breeding
Tree measurement
crown
girth
height
volume
Environmental
topics
Acid rain
Carbon sequestration
Clearcutting
Deforestation
Ecological services
Forest dieback
Forest fragmentation
High grading
Illegal logging
Invasive species
REDD
Shifting cultivation
chitemene
slash-and-burn
slash-and-char
svedjebruk
Timber recycling
Wildfire
Wilding
Industries
Coppicing
Forest farming
Forest gardening
Logging
Manufacturing
lumber
plywood
pulp and paper
sawmilling
Products
biochar
biomass
charcoal
non-timber
palm oil
rayon
rubber
tanbark
Rail transport
Tree farms(Christmas trees)
Wood
engineered
fuel
mahogany
teak
Woodworking
Occupations
Forester
Arborist
Bucker
Choker setter
Ecologist
Feller
Firefighter
handcrew
hotshot
lookout
smokejumper
River driver
Truck driver
Log scaler
Lumberjack
Ranger
Resin tapper
Rubber tapper
Shingle weaver
Timber cruiser
Tree planter
Wood process engineer
Forestry portal
WikiProject
Commons
Category
by continent
by country
education
events
history
initiatives
lists
organizations
tools
equipment
v
t
e
Environmental technology
Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology
Pollution
Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)
Renewable energy
Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)
Conservation
Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling
v
t
e
Deforestation and desertification
Deforestation
Assarting
Deforestation
Deforestation and climate change
Deforestation by region
Deforestation during the Roman period
Illegal logging
Mountaintop removal
Slash-and-burn
Slash-and-char
Desertification
Aridification
Desertification
Moisture recycling
Soil retrogression and degradation
Water scarcity
Mitigation
Afforestation
Arid Lands Information Network
Biochar
Conservation grazing
Desert greening
Ecoforestry
Ecological engineering
Farmer-managed regeneration
Flexible Mechanisms
Great Green Wall (Africa)
Managed intensive rotational grazing
Oasification
Reforestation
Three-North Shelter Forest (China)
Related articles
Allan Savory
Biodiversity
Economic impact analysis
Environmental philosophy
Extinction
Intact forest landscape
International Year of Forests
Land surface effects on climate
Land use, land-use change and forestry
Natural landscape
Neolithic
Richard St. Barbe Baker
Satoyama
Terraforming
Terra preta
Wilderness
World Forestry Congress
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1267
Cached time: 20161120114154
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.100 seconds
Real time usage: 0.130 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 428/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 49353/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 54/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 7/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.023/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.54 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
63.196
1 - -total
42.64%
26.947
3 - Template:Navbox
36.35%
22.973
1 - Template:Forestry
35.80%
22.627
1 - Template:Portal
12.04%
7.608
1 - Template:Reflist
10.99%
6.947
3 - Template:Icon
7.98%
5.040
1 - Template:Deforestation_and_desertification
7.32%
4.623
1 - Template:Environmental_technology
3.26%
2.059
1 - Template:Portal-inline
2.00%
1.263
1 - Template:Color
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:2317006-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120114154 and revision id 748190224
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ecoforestry&oldid=748190224"
Categories: Forestry and sustainabilityWorld forestryEnvironmental issues with forestsHistory of forestry