Ecologicalmodernization
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Part of a series on
Green politics
Core topics
Green politics
Green party
List of topics
Four Pillars
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Grassroots democracy
Nonviolence
Perspectives
Bright green environmentalism
Deep ecology
Eco-capitalism
Eco-feminism
Eco-nationalism
Eco-socialism
Green anarchism
Green conservatism
Green left
Green liberalism
Green libertarianism
Green syndicalism
Social ecology
Green Zionism
Organizations
Asia Pacific Greens Federation
European Green Party
Federation of Green Parties of Africa
Federation of the Green Parties of the Americas
Federation of Young European Greens
Global Greens
Global Young Greens
Related topics
Anti-environmentalism
Climate change politics
Conservation movement
Eco-terrorism
Ecocentrism
Ecological modernization
Environmental issues
Environmental justice
Environmental movement
Environmentalism
Politics portal
Environment portal
v
t
e
Ecological modernization is an optimistic school of thought in the social sciences that argues that the economy benefits from moves towards environmentalism.[citation needed] It has gained increasing attention among scholars and policymakers in the last several decades internationally. It is an analytical approach as well as a policy strategy and environmental discourse (Hajer, 1995).
Contents
1 Origins and key elements
2 Additional elements
3 Criticisms
4 See also
5 References
Origins and key elements[edit]
Ecological modernization emerged in the early 1980s within a group of scholars at Free University and the Social Science Research Centre in Berlin, among them Joseph Huber, Martin Jnicke(de) and Udo E. Simonis. Various authors pursued similar ideas at the time, e.g. Arthur H. Rosenfeld, Amory Lovins, Donald Huisingh, Ren Kemp, or Ernst Ulrich von Weizscker. Further substantial contributions were made by Arthur P.J. Mol, Gert Spaargaren and David A Sonnenfeld (Mol and Sonnenfeld, 2000; Mol, 2001).
One basic assumption of ecological modernization relates to environmental readaptation of economic growth and industrial development. On the basis of enlightened self-interest, economy and ecology can be favourably combined: Environmental productivity, i.e. productive use of natural resources and environmental media (air, water, soil, ecosystems), can be a source of future growth and development in the same way as labour productivity and capital productivity. This includes increases in energy and resource efficiency as well as product and process innovations such as environmental management and sustainable supply chain management, clean technologies, benign substitution of hazardous substances, and product design for environment. Radical innovations in these fields can not only reduce quantities of resource turnover and emissions, but also change the quality or structure of the industrial metabolism. In the co-evolution of humans and nature, and in order to upgrade the environments carrying capacity, ecological modernization gives humans an active role to play, which may entail conflicts with nature conservation.
There are different understandings of the scope of ecological modernization - whether it is just about techno-industrial progress and related aspects of polity and economy, and to what extent it also includes cultural aspects (ecological modernization of mind, value orientiations, attitudes, behaviour and lifestyles). Similarly, there is some pluralism as to whether ecological modernization would need to rely mainly on government, or markets and entrepreneurship, or civil society, or some sort of multi-level governance combining the three. Some scholars explicitly refer to general modernization theory as well as non-Marxist world-system theory, others dont.
Ultimately, however, there is a common understanding that ecological modernization will have to result in innovative structural change. So research is now still more focused on environmental innovations, or eco-innovations, and the interplay of various societal factors (scientific, economic, institutional, legal, political, cultural) which foster or hamper such innovations (Klemmer et al., 1999; Huber, 2004; Weber and Hemmelskamp, 2005; Olsthoorn and Wieczorek, 2006).
Ecological modernization shares a number of features with neighbouring, overlapping approaches. Among the most important are
the concept of sustainable development
the approach of industrial metabolism (Ayres and Simonis, 1994)
the concept of industrial ecology (Socolow, 1994).
Additional elements[edit]
A special topic of ecological modernization research during recent years was sustainable household, i.e. environment-oriented reshaping of lifestyles, consumption patterns, and demand-pull control of supply chains (Vergragt, 2000; OECD 2002). Some scholars of ecological modernization share an interest in industrial symbiosis, i.e. inter-site recycling that helps to reduce the consumption of resources via increasing efficiency (i.e. pollution prevention, waste reduction), typically by taking externalities from one economic production process and using them as raw material inputs for another (Christoff, 1996). Ecological modernization also relies on product life-cycle assessment and the analysis of materials and energy flows. In this context, ecological modernization promotes 'cradle to cradle' manufacturing (Braungart and McDonough, 2002), contrasted against the usual 'cradle to grave' forms of manufacturing - where waste is not re-integrated back into the production process. Another special interest in the ecological modernization literature has been the role of social movements and the emergence of civil society as a key agent of change (Fisher and Freudenburg, 2001).
As a strategy of change, some forms of ecological modernization may be favored by business interests because they seemingly meet the triple bottom line of economics, society, and environment, which, it is held, underpin sustainability, yet do not challenge free market principles. This contrasts with many environmental movement perspectives, which regard free trade and its notion of business self-regulation as part of the problem, or even an origin of environmental degradation. Under ecological modernization, the state is seen in a variety of roles and capacities: as the enabler for markets that help produce the technological advances via competition; as the regulatory (see regulation) medium through which corporations are forced to 'take back' their various wastes and re-integrate them in some manner into the production of new goods and services (e.g. the way that car corporations in Germany are required to accept back cars they manufactured once those vehicles have reached the end of their product lifespan); and in some cases as an institution that is incapable of addressing critical local, national, and global environmental problems. In the latter case, ecological modernization shares with Ulrich Beck (1999, 37-40) and others notions of the necessity of emergence of new forms of environmental governance, sometimes referred to as subpolitics or political modernization, where the environmental movement, community groups, businesses, and other stakeholders increasingly take on direct and leadership roles in stimulating environmental transformation. Political modernization of this sort requires certain supporting norms and institutions such as a free, independent, or at least critical press, basic human rights of expression, organization, and assembly, etc. New media such as the Internet greatly facilitate this.
Criticisms[edit]
Critics argue that ecological modernization will fail to protect the environment and does nothing to alter the impulses within the capitalist economic mode of production (see capitalism) that inevitably lead to environmental degradation (Foster, 2002). As such, it is just a form of 'green-washing'. Critics question whether technological advances alone can achieve resource conservation and better environmental protection, particularly if left to business self-regulation practices (York and Rosa, 2003). For instance, many technological improvements are currently feasible but not widely utilized. The most environmentally friendly product or manufacturing process (which is often also the most economically efficient) is not always the one automatically chosen by self-regulating corporations (e.g. hydrogen or biofuel vs. peak oil). In addition, some critics have argued that ecological modernization does not redress gross injustices that are produced within the capitalist system, such as environmental racism - where people of color and low income earners bear a disproportionate burden of environmental harm such as pollution, and lack access to environmental benefits such as parks, and social justice issues such as eliminating unemployment (Bullard, 1993; Gleeson and Low, 1999; Harvey, 1996) - environmental racism is also referred to as issues of the asymmetric distribution of environmental resources and services (Everett & Neu, 2000). Moreover, the theory seems to have limited global efficacy, applying primarily to its countries of origin - Germany and the Netherlands, and having little to say about the developing world (Fisher and Freudenburg, 2001). Perhaps the harshest criticism though, is that ecological modernization is predicated upon the notion of 'sustainable growth', and in reality this is not possible because growth entails the consumption of natural and human capital at great costs to ecosystems and societies.
Ecological modernization, its effectiveness and applicability, strengths and limitations, remains a dynamic and contentious area of environmental social science research and policy discourse in the early 21st century.
See also[edit]
Eco-efficiency
Eco-innovation
Ecological design
Environmental governance
Environmental policy
Environmental politics
Environmental sociology
Industrial ecology
Reflexive modernization
Restoration ecology
Sustainable development
References[edit]
This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but its sources remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Ayres, R. U. and Simonis, U. E., 1994, Industrial Metabolism. Restructuring for Sustainable Development, Tokyo, UN University Press.
Beck, U., 1999, World Risk Society, Cambridge, UK, Polity Press, ISBN 0-7456-2221-6.
Braungart, M., and McDonough, W., 2002, Cradle to Cradle. Remaking the way we make things, New York, N.Y., North Point Press.
Christoff, P., 1996, "Ecological modernisation, ecological modernities", Environmental Politics, 5(3), pp.476500.
Bullard, R., (ed.) 1993, Confronting Environmental Racism: Voices from the Grassroots, Boston, South End Press.
Dickens, P. 2004, Society & Nature: Changing Our Environment, Changing Ourselves, Cambridge, UK, Polity, ISBN 0-7456-2796-X.
Everett, J., and Neu, D., 2000, "Ecological Modernization and the Limits of Environmental Accounting?", Accounting Forum, 24(1), pp. 5-29.
Fisher, D.R., and Freudenburg, W.R., 2001, "Ecological modernization and its critics: Assessing the past and looking toward the future", Society and Natural Resources, 14, pp.701709.
Foster, J.B., 2002, Ecology Against Capitalism, New York, Monthly Review Press.
Gleeson, B. and Low, N. (eds.) 1999, Global Ethics and Environment, London, Routledge.
Hajer, M.A., 1995, The Politics of Environmental Discourse: Ecological Modernization and the Policy Process, Oxford, UK, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-827969-8.
Harvey, D., 1996, Justice, Nature and the Geography of Difference, Malden, Ma., Blackwell, p.377-402.
Huber, J., 2004, New Technologies and Environmental Innovation, Cheltenham, UK, Edward Elgar.
Klemmer, P., et al., 1999, Environmental Innovations. Incentives and Barriers, Berlin, Analytica.
Lippert, I. 2010, "Agents of Ecological Modernisation", Lbeck, DAV, ISBN 978-3-86247-062-4.
Mol, A.P.J., 2001, Globalization and Environmental Reform: The Ecological Modernization of the Global Economy, Cambridge, Ma., MIT Press, ISBN 0-262-13395-4.
Mol, A.P.J., and Sonnenfeld, D.A., (eds.) 2000, Ecological Modernisation around the World: Perspectives and Critical Debates, London and Portland, OR, Frank Cass/ Routledge, ISBN 978-0-7146-8113-9.
Mol, A.P.J., Sonnenfeld, D.A., and Spaargaren, G., (eds.) 2009, The Ecological Modernisation Reader: Environmental Reform in Theory and Practice, London and New York, Routledge, ISBN 978-0-415-45370-7 hardback, ISBN 978-0-415-45371-4 paperback.
OECD (ed.), Towards Sustainable Household Consumption? Trends and Policies in OECD Countries, Paris, OECD Publ., 2002.
Olsthoorn, X., and Wieczorek, A., (eds.) 2006, Understanding Industrial Transformation. Views from Different Disciplines, Dordrecht: Springer.
Redclift, M. R., and Woodgate, G. (eds.) 1997, The International Handbook of Environmental Sociology, Cheltenham, UK, Edward Elgar, ISBN 1-85898-405-X.
Redclift, M. R., and Woodgate, G., (eds.) 2005, New Developments in Environmental Sociology, Cheltenham, Edward Elgar, ISBN 1-84376-115-7.
Socolow, R. et al., (eds.) 1994, Industrial Ecology and Global Change, Cambridge University Press.
Spaargaren, G., Mol, A.P.J., and Buttel, F.H., (eds.) 2000, Environment and Global Modernity, London, Sage Publications.
Vergragt, Ph., Strategies Towards the Sustainable Household, SusHouse Project Final Report, Delft University of Technology, NL, 2000.
York, R., and Rosa, E.A., 2003, "Key challenges to ecological modernization theory", Organization and Environment, 16(3), pp.273288.
Young, S.C., 2000, The Emergence of Ecological Modernisation: Integrating the Environment and the Economy?, London, Routledge, ISBN 0-415-14173-7.
v
t
e
Environmental social science
Fields
Ecological anthropology
Ecological economics
Environmental anthropology
Environmental economics
Environmental communication
Environmental history
Environmental politics
Environmental psychology
Environmental sociology
Human ecology
Human geography
Political ecology
Regional science
Related
Agroecology
Anthrozoology
Behavioral geography
Community studies
Demography
Design
ecological
environmental
Ecological humanities
Economics
energy
thermo
Environmental
education
ethics
law
science
studies
Ethnobiology
botany
ecology
zoology
Forestry
Industrial ecology
Integrated geography
Permaculture
Rural sociology
Science, technology and society
science studies
Sustainability
science
studies
Systems ecology
Urban
ecology
geography
metabolism
studies
Applied
Architecture
landscape
sustainable
Ecopsychology
Engineering
ecological
environmental
Green criminology
Health
environmental
epidemiology
occupational
public
Management
environmental
fisheries
forest
natural resource
waste
Planning
environmental
land use
regional
spatial
urban
Policy
energy
environmental
Environment portal
Category
Concepts
Degrees
Institutions
Journals
Research institutes
Scholars
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
v
t
e
Globalization
Books
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Outline
Studies
Terms
Writers
Aspects
Alter-globalization
Anti-globalization
Counter-hegemonic globalization
Cultural globalization
Deglobalization
Democratic globalization
Economic globalization
Environmental globalization
Financial globalization
Global citizenship
education
Global governance
Global health
History of globalization
archaic
early modern
Military globalization
Political globalization
Trade globalization
Workforce globalization
Issues
Global
Disease
Digital divide
Labor arbitrage
Population
Warming
Water crisis
Other
Brain drain
reverse
Climate change
Climate justice
Development aid
Economic inequality
Endangered languages
Fair trade
Forced migration
Human rights
Illicit financial flows
Invasive species
Investor-state disputes
New international division of labour
NorthSouth divide
Offshoring
Race to the bottom
pollution havens
Transnational crime
McDonaldization
Westernization
American imperialism
British Empire
World war
Theories
Capital accumulation
Dependency
Development
Earth system
Fiscal localism
Modernization
ecological
history of
Primitive accumulation
Social change
World history
World-systems
Notable
scholars
Samir Amin
Arjun Appadurai
K. Anthony Appiah
Daniele Archibugi
Giovanni Arrighi
Ravi Batra
Jean Baudrillard
Zygmunt Bauman
Ulrich Beck
Walden Bello
Jagdish Bhagwati
Robert Brenner
Manuel Castells
Noam Chomsky
Alfred Crosby
Christopher Chase-Dunn
Andre G. Frank
Thomas Friedman
Anthony Giddens
Peter Gowan
Michael Hardt
David Harvey
David Held
Paul Hirst
Michael Hudson
Paul James
Ibn Khaldun
Naomi Klein
Antonio Negri
Jeffrey Sachs
Saskia Sassen
John R. Saul
Vandana Shiva
Joseph Stiglitz
John Urry
Immanuel Wallerstein
George Ritzer
Portal
Category
Commons
WikiProject
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1258
Cached time: 20161120153742
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.188 seconds
Real time usage: 0.253 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1309/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 94624/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1731/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 3/500
Lua time usage: 0.050/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.54 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
140.319
1 - -total
26.42%
37.065
4 - Template:Navbox
25.66%
36.009
1 - Template:Green_politics_sidebar
25.23%
35.408
1 - Template:Citation_needed
24.80%
34.794
1 - Template:Green_politics
22.72%
31.886
1 - Template:Fix
22.50%
31.566
1 - Template:Sidebar_with_collapsible_lists
13.63%
19.127
2 - Template:Category_handler
12.15%
17.049
1 - Template:Globalization
10.93%
15.336
1 - Template:Environmental_social_science
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:316966-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120153741 and revision id 749258170
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ecological_modernization&oldid=749258170"
Categories: Environmental sociologyEnvironmental social science conceptsSociological terminologySociological theoriesEnvironmental policyIndustrial ecologyGlobal ethicsModernityHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2012Interlanguage link template link numberArticles lacking in-text citations from April 2009All articles lacking in-text citationsPages using ISBN magic links