Electricalpowerindustry
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Electrical power industry)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Electric power is transmitted on overhead lines like these, and also on underground high voltage cables.
The electric power industry is the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electric power to the general public. The electrical industry started with introduction of electric lighting in 1882. Throughout the 1880s and 1890s, growing economic and safety concerns lead to the regulation of the industry. Once an expensive novelty limited to the most densely populated areas, reliable and economical electric power has become a requirement for normal operation of all elements of developed economies.
By the middle of the 20th century, electric power was seen as a "natural monopoly", only efficient if a restricted number of organizations participated in the market; in some areas, vertically-integrated companies provides all stages from generation to retail, and only governmental supervision regulated the rate of return and cost structure.
Since the 1990s, many regions have opened up the generation and distribution of electric power to provide a more competitive electricity market. While such markets can be abusively manipulated with consequent adverse price and reliability impact to consumers, generally competitive production of electrical energy leads to worthwhile improvements in efficiency. However, transmission and distribution are harder problems since returns on investment are not as easy to find.
The largest electric power companies in the world that deal with all aspects of production and sales of electric power are:
Company name
Total assets
(US$ billion)
E.ON
144
Enel
140
GDF Suez
113
EDF
83
RWE
63
Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO)
47
Scottish & Southern Energy
45
Centrica
43
State Grid Corporation of China
42
Iberdrola
41
Duke Energy
25
National Grid
23
Contents
1 History
2 Market reform
3 Organization
4 Generation
5 World electricity industries
6 See also
7 References
8 Further reading
History[edit]
Bolsward Substation, the Netherlands
Transmission lines in Romania of which the nearest is a Phase Transposition Tower
Although electricity had been known to be produced as a result of the chemical reactions that take place in an electrolytic cell since Alessandro Volta developed the voltaic pile in 1800, its production by this means was, and still is, expensive. In 1831, Michael Faraday devised a machine that generated electricity from rotary motion, but it took almost 50 years for the technology to reach a commercially viable stage. In 1878, in the US, Thomas Edison developed and sold a commercially viable replacement for gas lighting and heating using locally generated and distributed direct current electricity.
The world's first public electricity supply was provided in late 1881, when the streets of the Surrey town of Godalming in the UK were lit with electric light. This system was powered from a water wheel on the River Wey, which drove a Siemens alternator that supplied a number of arc lamps within the town. This supply scheme also provided electricity to a number of shops and premises to light 34 incandescent Swan light bulbs.
Additionally, Robert Hammond, in December 1881, demonstrated the new electric light in the Sussex town of Brighton in the UK for a trial period. The ensuing success of this installation enabled Hammond to put this venture on both a commercial and legal footing, as a number of shop owners wanted to use the new electric light. Thus the Hammond Electricity Supply Co. was launched. Whilst the Godalming and Holborn Viaduct Schemes closed after a few years the Brighton Scheme continued on, and supply was in 1887 made available for 24 hours per day.
In early 1882, Edison opened the worlds first steam-powered electricity generating station at Holborn Viaduct in London, where he had entered into an agreement with the City Corporation for a period of three months to provide street lighting. In time he had supplied a number of local consumers with electric light. The method of supply was direct current (DC).
It was later on in the year in September 1882 that Edison opened the Pearl Street Power Station in New York City and again it was a DC supply. It was for this reason that the generation was close to or on the consumer's premises as Edison had no means of voltage conversion. The voltage chosen for any electrical system is a compromise. Increasing the voltage reduces the current and therefore reduces the required wire thickness. Unfortunately it also increases the danger from direct contact and increases the required insulation thickness. Furthermore, some load types were difficult or impossible to make work with higher voltages. The overall effect was that Edison's system required power stations to be within a mile of the consumers. While this could work in city centres, it would be unable to economically supply suburbs with power.[1]
The mid to late 1880's saw the introduction of alternating current (AC) systems in Europe and the U.S. AC power had an advantage in that transformers, installed at power stations, could be used to raise the voltage from the generators, and transformers at local substations could reduce voltage to supply loads. Increasing the voltage reduced the current in the transmission and distribution lines and hence the size of conductors and distribution losses. This made it more economical to distribute power over long distances. Generators (such as hydroelectric sites) could be located far from the loads. AC and DC competed for a while, during a period called the War of Currents. The DC system was able to claim slightly greater safety, but this difference was not great enough to overwhelm the enormous technical and economic advantages of alternating current which eventually won out.[1]
High tension line in Montreal, Quebec, Canada
The AC power system used today developed rapidly, backed by industrialists such as George Westinghouse with Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky, Galileo Ferraris, Sebastian Ziani de Ferranti, Lucien Gaulard, John Dixon Gibbs, Carl Wilhelm Siemens, William Stanley, Jr., Nikola Tesla, and others contributed to this field.
While high-voltage direct current (HVDC) is increasingly being used to transmit large quantities of electricity over long distances or to connect adjacent asynchronous power systems, the bulk of electricity generation, transmission, distribution and retailing takes place using alternating current.
Market reform[edit]
There has such as transmission and distribution sectors from the contestable sectors of generation and retailing across the world. This has occurred prominently since the reform of the electricity supply industry in England and Wales in 1990. In some countries, wholesale electricity markets operate, with generators and retailers trading electricity in a similar manner to shares and currency. As deregulation continues further, utilities are driven to sell their assets as the energy market follows in line with the gas market in use of the futures and spot markets and other financial arrangements. Even globalization with foreign purchases are taking place. One such purchase was the when UKs National Grid, the largest private electric utility in the world, bought New Englands electric system for $3.2 billion.[2] Domestically, local electric and gas firms have merged operations as they saw the advantages of joint affiliation, especially with the reduced cost of joint-metering. Technological advances will take place in the competitive wholesale electric markets, such examples already being utilized include fuel cells used in space flight; aeroderivative gas turbines used in jet aircraft; solar engineering and photovoltaic systems; off-shore wind farms; and the communication advances spawned by the digital world, particularly with microprocessing which aids in monitoring and dispatching.[3]
Electricity is expected to see growing demand in the future. The Information Revolution is highly reliant on electric power. Other growth areas include emerging new electricity-exclusive technologies, developments in space conditioning, industrial processes, and transportation (for example hybrid vehicles, locomotives).[3]
Organization[edit]
The electric power industry is commonly split up into four processes. These are electricity generation such as a power station, electric power transmission, electricity distribution and electricity retailing. In many countries, electric power companies own the whole infrastructure from generating stations to transmission and distribution infrastructure. For this reason, electric power is viewed as a natural monopoly. The industry is generally heavily regulated, often with price controls and is frequently government-owned and operated.
The nature and state of market reform of the electricity market often determines whether electric companies are able to be involved in just some of these processes without having to own the entire infrastructure, or citizens choose which components of infrastructure to patronise. In countries where electricity provision is deregulated, end-users of electricity may opt for more costly green electricity.
Generation[edit]
The Athlone Power Station in Cape Town, South Africa.
Main articles: Electricity generation and Energy development
All forms of electricity generation have positive and negative aspects. Technology will probably eventually declare the most preferred forms, but in a market economy, the options with less overall costs generally will be chosen above other sources. It is not clear yet which form can best meet the necessary energy demands or which process can best solve the demand for electricity. There are indications that renewable energy and distributed generation are becoming more viable in economic terms. A diverse mix of generation sources reduces the risks of electricity price spikes.
World electricity industries[edit]
See also: List of electricity sectors
The organization of the electrical sector of a country or region varies depending on the economic system of the country. In some places, all electric power generation, transmission and distribution is provided by a government controlled organization. Other regions have private or investor-owned utility companies, city or municipally owned companies, cooperative companies owned by their own customers, or combinations. Generation, transmission and distribution may be offered by a single company, or different organizations may provide each of these portions of the system.
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Energy portal
AC power
Distributed generation
Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated Database
Meter Point Administration Number, a unique UK supply number
North American Electric Reliability Corporation
Rate Case
Reddy Kilowatt, a U.S. electricity corporate logo
Samuel Insull
References[edit]
^ a b Shock and Awe: The Story of Electricity - 2. The Age of Invention
^ SEC filing dated March 15, 2000
^ a b Borberly, A. and Kreider, J. F. (2001). Distributed Generation: The Power Paradigm for the New Millennium. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL. 400 pgs.
Further reading[edit]
P. Strange, "Early Electricity Supply in Britain: Chesterfield and Godalming", IEEE Proceedings (1979).
D. G. Tucker, "Hydro-Electricity for Public Supply in Britain", Industrial Archaeology Review, (1977).
B. Bowers, A History of Electric Light & Power, Peregrinus (1982).
T. P. Hughes, Networks of Power, Johns Hopkins Press London (1983).
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
v
t
e
Major industries
Heavy
Light
Activism
Aerospace
Aircraft
Space
Agriculture
Alcohol
Anime
Arms
Automotive
Bicycle
Biotechnology
Chemical
Computer
Construction
Content
Creative
Cultural
Education
Electric power
Electronics
Semiconductor
Energy
Renewable energy
Entertainment
Fashion
Film
Financial services
Fishing
Food
Bushfood
Fur
Gaming
Online gambling
Health care
Hospitality
Information
Language
Leisure
Manufacturing
Meat packing
Mineral
Motorsport
Music
Naval stores
Payment card
Personal care
Petroleum
Oil shale
Pharmaceutical
Plastics
Poverty
Professional audiovisual
Professional services
Pulp and paper
Radio
Real estate
Housing
Online service
Security
Sex
Showbiz
Software
Sport
Textile
Tobacco
Tourism
Video game
Water
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1242
Cached time: 20161119171858
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.128 seconds
Real time usage: 0.196 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1614/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 46377/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1780/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 8/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.027/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.73 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
112.476
1 - -total
33.54%
37.721
1 - Template:More_footnotes
24.17%
27.186
3 - Template:Navbox
21.23%
23.877
1 - Template:Ambox
20.68%
23.260
1 - Template:Electricity_generation
15.85%
17.823
12 - Template:Flagicon
8.74%
9.830
1 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
6.64%
7.470
1 - Template:Portal
5.98%
6.731
1 - Template:Main
4.02%
4.522
1 - Template:Reflist
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:277750-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119171858 and revision id 736164568
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Electric_power_industry&oldid=736164568"
Categories: Electric powerIndustriesHidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from January 2012All articles lacking in-text citations