Endangeredspecies
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For other uses, see Endangered species (disambiguation).
"Endangered" redirects here. For other uses, see Endangered (disambiguation).
Conservation status
by IUCN Red List category
Extinct
Extinct (EX)
Extinct in the Wild (EW)
(list)
(list)
Threatened
Critically Endangered (CR)
Endangered (EN)
Vulnerable (VU)
(list)
(list)
(list)
Lower Risk
Near Threatened (NT)
Conservation Dependent (CD)
Least Concern (LC)
(list)
(list)
Other categories
Data Deficient (DD)
Not Evaluated (NE)
(list)
Related topics
International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
IUCN Red List
Lists of organisms by population
v
t
e
An Endangered(EN) species is a species which has been categorized by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List as likely to become extinct. "Endangered" is the second most severe conservation status for wild populations in the IUCN's schema after Critically Endangered(CR).
In 2012, the IUCN Red List featured 3079 animal and 2655 plant species as endangered(EN) worldwide.[1] The figures for 1998 were, respectively, 1102 and 1197.
Many nations have laws that protect conservation-reliant species: for example, forbidding hunting, restricting land development or creating preserves. Population numbers, trends and species' conservation status can be found in the lists of organisms by population.
Contents
1 Conservation status
2 IUCN Red List
2.1 Criteria for 'Endangered (EN)' [7]
3 Endangered Species in the United States
3.1 Endangered Species Act
4 Invasive species
5 Conservation
5.1 Captive breeding
5.2 Private farming
6 Countries with endangered animals
7 Gallery
8 See also
9 Notes and references
10 Bibliography
11 External links
Conservation status[edit]
Main article: Conservation status
The conservation status of a species indicates the likelihood that it will become extinct. Many factors are considered when assessing the conservation status of a species; e.g., such statistics as the number remaining, the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, or known threats.[2] The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is the best-known worldwide conservation status listing and ranking system.[3]
Over 40% of the world's species are estimated to be at risk of extinction.[4] Internationally, 199 countries have signed an accord to create Biodiversity Action Plans that will protect endangered and other threatened species. In the United States, such plans are usually called Species Recovery Plans.
IUCN Red List[edit]
The Siberian tiger is an Endangered(EN) tiger subspecies. Three tiger subspecies are already extinct (see List of carnivorans by population).[5]
Blue-throated macaw, an endangered species
Brown spider monkey, an endangered species
Siamese crocodile, an endangered species
Malayan tiger, an endangered species
Kemp's ridley sea turtle, an endangered species
Though labelled a list, the IUCN Red List is a system of assessing the global conservation status of species that includes "Data Deficient"(DD) species species for which more data and assessment is required before their status may be determined as well species comprehensively assessed by the IUCN's species assessment process. Those species of "Near Threatened"(NT) and "Least Concern"(LC) status have been assessed and found to have relatively robust and healthy populations, though these may be in decline. Unlike their more general use elsewhere, the List uses the terms "endangered species" and "threatened species" with particular meanings: "Endangered"(EN) species lie between "Vulnerable"(VU) and "Critically Endangered"(CR) species, while "Threatened" species are those species determined to be Vulnerable, Endangered or Critically Endangered.
The IUCN categories, with examples of animals classified by them, include:
Extinct (EX)
Examples: aurochs
Bali tiger
blackfin cisco
Caribbean monk seal
Carolina parakeet
Caspian tiger
dodo
dusky seaside sparrow
eastern cougar
golden toad
great auk
Japanese sea lion
Javan tiger
Labrador duck
passenger pigeon
Schomburgk's deer
Steller's sea cow
thylacine
toolache wallaby
western black rhinoceros
California Grizzly Bear
Extinct in the wild (EW)
Captive individuals survive, but there is no free-living, natural population.
Examples:Barbary lion
Hawaiian crow
Pre David's deer
scimitar oryx
Socorro dove
Wyoming toad
Critically endangered (CR)
Faces an extremely high risk of extinction in the immediate future.
Examples: addax
African wild ass
Alabama cavefish
Amur leopard
Arakan forest turtle
Asiatic cheetah
axolotl
Bactrian camel
black rhino
blue-throated macaw
Brazilian merganser
brown spider monkey
California condor
Chinese alligator
Chinese giant salamander
gharial
Hawaiian monk seal
Ivory-billed Woodpecker
Javan rhino
kakapo
Leadbeater's possum
Mediterranean monk seal
mountain gorilla
northern hairy-nosed wombat
Philippine eagle
red wolf
saiga
Siamese crocodile
Malayan tiger
Spix's macaw
southern bluefin tuna
South China tiger
Sumatran orangutan
Sumatran rhinoceros
Sumatran tiger
vaquita
Yangtze river dolphin
northern white rhinoceros
hawksbill sea turtle
Kemp's ridley sea turtle
Endangered (EN)
Faces a high risk of extinction in the near future.
Examples: African penguin
African wild dog[a]
Asian elephant
Asiatic lion
Australasian bittern
blue whale
bonobo
Bornean orangutan
common chimpanzee
dhole
eastern lowland gorilla
hispid hare
giant otter
Goliath frog
green sea turtle
loggerhead sea turtle
Grevy's zebra
hyacinth macaw
Humblot's heron
Iberian lynx
Japanese crane
Japanese night heron
Lear's macaw
Malayan tapir
markhor
Malagasy pond heron
Persian leopard
proboscis monkey
purple-faced langur
pygmy hippopotamus
red-breasted goose
Rothschild's giraffe
snow leopard
South Andean deer
Sri Lankan elephant
takhi (near Critically Endangered) Toque macaque
Vietnamese pheasant
volcano rabbit
wild water buffalo
white-eared night heron
fishing cat
tasmanian devil
Vulnerable (VU)
Faces a high risk of endangerment in the medium term.
Examples: African grey parrot
African bush elephant[b]
African lion[b]
American paddlefish
common carp
clouded leopard
cheetah[c]
dugong
Far Eastern curlew
fossa
Galapagos tortoise[d]
gaur
blue-eyed cockatoo
golden hamster
whale shark
hippopotamus
Humboldt penguin
Indian rhinoceros
Komodo dragon[e]
lesser white-fronted goose
mandrill
maned sloth
mountain zebra
nene
polar bear
red panda
sloth bear
takin
yak
great white shark
American crocodile
dingo
king cobra
Near-threatened (NT)
May be considered threatened in the near future.
Examples: American bison
Asian golden cat
blue-billed duck
emperor goose
emperor penguin
Eurasian curlew
jaguar
leopard
Larch Mountain salamander
Magellanic penguin
maned wolf
narwhal
margay
montane solitary eagle
Pampas cat
Pallas's cat
reddish egret
white rhinoceros
striped hyena
tiger shark
white eared pheasant
Least concern (LC)
No immediate threat to species' survival.
Examples: American alligator
American crow
Indian peafowl
olive baboon
bald eagle
brown bear
brown rat
brown-throated sloth
Canada goose
cane toad
common wood pigeon
cougar
common frog
giraffe
grey wolf
house mouse
wolverine[6]
human
palm cockatoo
mallard
meerkat
mute swan
platypus
red-billed quelea
red-tailed hawk
rock pigeon
scarlet macaw
southern elephant seal
milk shark
red howler monkey
Criteria for 'Endangered (EN)' [7][edit]
A) Reduction in population size based on any of the following:
An observed, estimated, inferred or suspected population size reduction of  70% over the last 10 years or three generations, whichever is the longer, where the causes of the reduction are clearly reversible AND understood AND ceased, based on (and specifying) any of the following:
direct observation
an index of abundance appropriate for the taxon
a decline in area of occupancy, extent of occurrence and/or quality of habitat
actual or potential levels of exploitation
the effects of introduced taxa, hybridisation, pathogens, pollutants, competitors or parasites.
An observed, estimated, inferred or suspected population size reduction of  50% over the last 10 years or three generations, whichever is the longer, where the reduction or its causes may not have ceased OR may not be understood OR may not be reversible, based on (and specifying) any of (a) to (e) under A1.
A population size reduction of  50%, projected or suspected to be met within the next 10 years or three generations, whichever is the longer (up to a maximum of 100 years), based on (and specifying) any of (b) to (e) under A1.
An observed, estimated, inferred, projected or suspected population size reduction of  50% over any 10 year or three generation period, whichever is longer (up to a maximum of 100 years in the future), where the time period must include both the past and the future, and where the reduction or its causes may not have ceased OR may not be understood OR may not be reversible, based on (and specifying) any of (a) to (e) under A1.
B) Geographic range in the form of either B1 (extent of occurrence) OR B2 (area of occupancy) OR both:
Extent of occurrence estimated to be less than 5,000km, and estimates indicating at least two of a-c:
Severely fragmented or known to exist at no more than five locations.
Continuing decline, inferred, observed or projected, in any of the following:
extent of occurrence
area of occupancy
area, extent and/or quality of habitat
number of locations or subpopulations
number of mature individuals
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following:
extent of occurrence
area of occupancy
number of locations or subpopulations
number of mature individuals
Area of occupancy estimated to be less than 500km, and estimates indicating at least two of a-c:
Severely fragmented or known to exist at no more than five locations.
Continuing decline, inferred, observed or projected, in any of the following:
extent of occurrence
area of occupancy
area, extent and/or quality of habitat
number of locations or subpopulations
number of mature individuals
Extreme fluctuations in any of the following:
extent of occurrence
area of occupancy
number of locations or subpopulations
number of mature individuals
C) Population estimated to number fewer than 2,500 mature individuals and either:
An estimated continuing decline of at least 20% within five years or two generations, whichever is longer, (up to a maximum of 100 years in the future) OR
A continuing decline, observed, projected, or inferred, in numbers of mature individuals AND at least one of the follow (a-b):
Population structure in the form of one of the following:
no subpopulation estimated to contain more than 250 mature individuals, OR
at least 95% of mature individuals in one subpopulation
Extreme fluctuations in number of mature individuals
D) Population size estimated to number fewer than 250 mature individuals.
E) Quantitative analysis showing the probability of extinction in the wild is at least 20% within 20 years or five generations, whichever is the longer (up to a maximum of 100 years).
^ Near-critically endangered.
^ a b Particularly sensitive to poaching levels.
^ Near-endangered due to poaching.
^ May vary according to levels of tourism.
^ Varies according to female populations.
Endangered Species in the United States[edit]
There is data from the United States that shows a correlation between human populations and threatened and endangered species. Using species data from the Database on the Economics and Management of Endangered Species (DEMES) database and the period that the Endangered Species Act (ESA) has been in existence, 1970 to 1997, a table was created that suggests a positive relationship between human activity and species endangerment.[8] As early as the 1800s, humans began noticing the decline of certain species of animals in their usual habitats. An example is the whooping crane. Once abundant from Canada to Mexico, it was estimated in 1941 that only 16 birds remained in the wild. Another early example of mankind noticing the extinction of species was the introduction of kudzu in the southern United States. This fast-growing plant took over the south, growing on plants and trees and squelching the life out of them.[9] How Many Endangered Species are there in US?
According to information of IUCN red list there are around 391 endangered species occur in United States.[10]
Endangered Species Act[edit]
"Endangered" in relation to "threatened" under the ESA.
Under the Endangered Species Act in the United States, species may be listed as "endangered" or "threatened". The Salt Creek tiger beetle (Cicindela nevadica lincolniana) is an example of an endangered subspecies protected under the ESA. The US Fish and Wildlife Service as well as the National Marine Fisheries Service are held responsible for classifying and protecting endangered species, and adding a particular species to the list can be a long, controversial process (Wilcove & Master, 2008, p.414).
Some endangered species laws are controversial. Typical areas of controversy include: criteria for placing a species on the endangered species list and criteria for removing a species from the list once its population has recovered; whether restrictions on land development constitute a "taking" of land by the government; the related question of whether private landowners should be compensated for the loss of uses of their lands; and obtaining reasonable exceptions to protection laws. Also lobbying from hunters and various industries like the petroleum industry, construction industry, and logging, has been an obstacle in establishing endangered species laws.
The Bush administration lifted a policy that required federal officials to consult a wildlife expert before taking actions that could damage endangered species. Under the Obama administration, this policy has been reinstated.[11]
Being listed as an endangered species can have negative effect since it could make a species more desirable for collectors and poachers.[12] This effect is potentially reducible, such as in China where commercially farmed turtles may be reducing some of the pressure to poach endangered species.[13]
Another problem with the listing species is its effect of inciting the use of the "shoot, shovel, and shut-up" method of clearing endangered species from an area of land. Some landowners currently may perceive a diminution in value for their land after finding an endangered animal on it. They have allegedly opted to silently kill and bury the animals or destroy habitat, thus removing the problem from their land, but at the same time further reducing the population of an endangered species.[14] The effectiveness of the Endangered Species Act which coined the term "endangered species" has been questioned by business advocacy groups and their publications but is nevertheless widely recognized by wildlife scientists who work with the species as an effective recovery tool. Nineteen species have been delisted and recovered[15] and 93% of listed species in the northeastern United States have a recovering or stable population.[16]
Currently, 1,556 known species in the world have been identified as near extinction or endangered and are under protection by government law. This approximation, however, does not take into consideration the number of species threatened with endangerment that are not included under the protection of such laws as the Endangered Species Act. According to NatureServe's global conservation status, approximately thirteen percent of vertebrates (excluding marine fish), seventeen percent of vascular plants, and six to eighteen percent of fungi are considered imperiled.[17]:415 Thus, in total, between seven and eighteen percent of the United States' known animals, fungi and plants are near extinction.[17]:416 This total is substantially more than the number of species protected in the United States under the Endangered Species Act.
Bald eagle
American bison
Ever since mankind began hunting to preserve itself, over-hunting and fishing has been a large and dangerous problem. Of all the species who became extinct due to interference from mankind, the dodo, passenger pigeon, great auk, Tasmanian tiger and Steller's sea cow are some of the more well known examples; with the bald eagle, grizzly bear, American bison, Eastern timber wolf and sea turtle having been hunted to near-extinction. Many began as food sources seen as necessary for survival but became the target of sport. However, due to major efforts to prevent extinction, the bald eagle, or Haliaeetus leucocephalus is now under the category of Least Concern on the red list.[18] A present-day example of the over-hunting of a species can be seen in the oceans as populations of certain whales have been greatly reduced. Large whales like the blue whale, bowhead whale, finback whale, gray whale, sperm whale and humpback whale are some of the eight whales which are currently still included on the Endangered Species List. Actions have been taken to attempt reduction in whaling and increase population sizes, including prohibiting all whaling in United States waters, the formation of the CITES treaty which protects all whales, along with the formation of the International Whaling Commission (IWC). But even though all of these movements have been put in place, countries such as Japan continue to hunt and harvest whales under the claim of "scientific purposes".[19] Over-hunting, climatic change and habitat loss leads in landing species in endangered species list and could mean that extinction rates could increase to a large extent in the future.
Invasive species[edit]
Main article: Introduced species
The introduction of non-indigenous species to an area can disrupt the ecosystem to such an extent that native species become endangered. Such introductions may be termed alien or invasive species. In some cases the invasive species compete with the native species for food or prey on the natives. In other cases a stable ecological balance may be upset by predation or other causes leading to unexpected species decline. New species may also carry diseases to which the native species have no resistance.[20]
Conservation[edit]
The dhole, Asia's most endangered top predator, is on the edge of extinction.
Captive breeding[edit]
Main article: Captive breeding
Captive breeding is the process of breeding rare or endangered species in human controlled environments with restricted settings, such as wildlife reserves, zoos and other conservation facilities. Captive breeding is meant to save species from extinction and so stabilize the population of the species that it will not disappear.[21]
This technique has worked for many species for some time, with probably the oldest known such instances of captive mating being attributed to menageries of European and Asian rulers, an example being the Pre David's deer. However, captive breeding techniques are usually difficult to implement for such highly mobile species as some migratory birds (e.g. cranes) and fishes (e.g. hilsa). Additionally, if the captive breeding population is too small, then inbreeding may occur due to a reduced gene pool and reduce immunity.
In 1981, the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) created a Species Survival Plan (SSP) in order to help preserve specific endangered and threatened species through captive breeding. With over 450 SSP Plans, there are a number of endangered species that are covered by the AZA with plans to cover population management goals and recommendations for breeding for a diverse and healthy population, created by Taxon Advisory Groups. These programs are commonly created as a last resort effort. SSP Programs regularly participate in species recovery, veterinary care for wildlife disease outbreaks, and a number of other wildlife conservation efforts. The AZA's Species Survival Plan also has breeding and transfer programs, both within and outside of AZA - certified zoos and aquariums. Some animals that are part of SSP programs are giant pandas, lowland gorillas, and California condors.[22]
Private farming[edit]
Black rhino
Southern bluefin tuna
Whereas poaching substantially reduces endangered animal populations, legal, for-profit, private farming does the opposite. It has substantially increased the populations of the southern black rhinoceros and southern white rhinoceros. Dr Richard Emslie, a scientific officer at the IUCN, said of such programs, "Effective law enforcement has become much easier now that the animals are largely privately owned... We have been able to bring local communities into the conservation programmes. There are increasingly strong economic incentives attached to looking after rhinos rather than simply poaching: from Eco-tourism or selling them on for a profit. So many owners are keeping them secure. The private sector has been key to helping our work."[23]
Conservation experts view the effect of China's turtle farming on the wild turtle populations of China and South-Eastern Asia many of which are endangered as "poorly understood".[24] Although they commend the gradual replacement of turtles caught wild with farm-raised turtles in the marketplace the percentage of farm-raised individuals in the "visible" trade grew from around 30% in 2000 to around 70% in 2007[25] they worry that many wild animals are caught to provide farmers with breeding stock. The conservation expert Peter Paul van Dijk noted that turtle farmers often believe that animals caught wild are superior breeding stock. Turtle farmers may, therefore, seek and catch the last remaining wild specimens of some endangered turtle species.[25]
In 2009, researchers in Australia managed to coax southern bluefin tuna to breed in landlocked tanks, raising the possibility that fish farming may be able to save the species from overfishing.[26]
Countries with endangered animals[edit]
Around the world hundreds of thousands of species are lost to extinction, many of them only discovered as remains, after they are gone. Thus, not only biological variability, but also genetic diversity, and perhaps sources of livelihood for future generations are lost. Endangered species are species that may become extinct in the near future. Throughout history millions of species have disappeared, due to natural processes. In the past 300 years, however, humans have increased the rate of extinction.[citation needed]
For some plant and animal species, living seems to be a daily hazard. And humans seem to pose the biggest threat. Ecological disasters, hunting/poaching, deforestation and other consequences of human action causes damage to the food chain, breeding grounds, and habitat.
Gallery[edit]
The endangered (near threatened) island fox.
Though endangered, the sea otter has a relatively large population.
1870s photo of American bison skulls. By 1890, overhunting had reduced thepopulation to 750.
Immature California condor.
Loggerhead sea turtle
Asian arowana
Hawksbill sea turtle
Cantor's giant softshell turtle
See also[edit]
ARKive
Biodiversity
Cobthorn Trust
critically endangered
endangered plants of Europe
Endangered Species Act
Ex-situ conservation
extinction
Holocene extinction
Habitat fragmentation
Hawaiian honeycreeper conservation
In-situ conservation
The Last paradises: On the Track of Rare Animals (1967 film)
List of endangered species in India
List of endangered species in North America
List of National Wildlife Refuges established for endangered species
Overexploitation
NatureServe conservation status
Rare species
Red Data Book of the Russian Federation
red-listed/ blue-listed
threatened species
United States Fish and Wildlife Service list of endangered species
World Conference on Breeding endangered Species in Captivity as
an Aid to their Survival (WCBESCAS)
World Conservation Union (IUCN)
World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)
IUCN Red List
Lists of IUCN Red List endangered species
List of endangered amphibians
List of endangered arthropods
List of endangered birds
List of endangered fishes
List of endangered insects
List of endangered invertebrates
List of endangered mammals
List of endangered molluscs
List of endangered reptiles
List of Chromista by conservation status
List of fungi by conservation status
Notes and references[edit]
^ "IUCN Red List version 2012.2: Table 2: Changes in numbers of species in the threatened categories (CR, EN, VU) from 1996 to 2012 (IUCN Red List version 2012.2) for the major taxonomic groups on the Red List" (PDF). IUCN. 2012. Retrieved 2012-12-31.
^ "NatureServe Conservation Status". NatureServe. April 2007. Retrieved 2 June 2012.
^ "Red List Overview". IUCN. February 2011. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved 2 June 2012.
^ "Threatened Species". Conservation and Wildlife. Archived from the original on September 13, 2012. Retrieved 2 June 2012.
^ "The Tiger". Sundarbans Tiger Project. Retrieved 2 June 2012.
^ Abramov, A.; Belant, J. & Wozencraft, C. (2009). "Gulo gulo". IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Version 2009.2. International Union for Conservation of Nature. Retrieved 2010-01-25.
^ http://www.iucnredlist.org/static/categories_criteria_3_1
^ Shogren, Jason F.; Tschirhart, John (eds.). Protecting Endangered Species in the United States: Biological Needs, Political Realities, Economic Choices. Cambridge University Press. p.1. ISBN0521662109.
^ "Endangered Species List". endangeredspecies2050.com. Retrieved 2015-11-02.
^ "Endangered Species List". http://endangeredspeciesz.com/endangered-species-us/. Retrieved 2016-07-27. External link in |website= (help)
^ FWS.gov
^ Courchamp, Franck; Elena Angulo; Philippe Rivalan; Richard J. Hall; Laetitia Signoret; Leigh Bull; Yves Meinard. "Rarity Value and Species Extinction: The Anthropogenic Allee Effect". PLoS Biology. Retrieved 2006-12-19.
^ Dharmananda, Subhuti. "Endangered Species issues affecting turtles and tortoises used in Chinese medicine". Institute for Traditional Medicine, Portland, Oregon. Retrieved 2006-12-19.
^ "Shoot, Shovel and Shut Up". Reasononline. Reason Magazine. 2003-12-31. Retrieved 2006-12-23.
^ "USFWS Threatened and Endangered Species System (TESS)". U. S. Fish & Wildlife Service. Retrieved 2007-08-06.
^ Success Stories for Endangered Species Act
^ a b Wilcove & Master 2008.
^ "Haliaeetus leucocephalus (Bald Eagle)". www.iucnredlist.org. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ Freedman, Bill (2008). "Endangered species". Gale (4th ed.).
^ Chiras, Daniel D. (2011). "Invader Species". Grolier. Online.
^ "Captive Breeding Populations - National Zoo". Nationalzoo.si.edu. Retrieved 2009-12-06.
^ "Association of Zoos and Aquariums Species Survival Programs".
^ He's black, and he's back! Private enterprise saves southern Africa's rhino from extinction, The Independent, June 17, 2008
^ Shi, Haitao; Parham, James F.; Fan, Zhiyong; Hong, Meiling; Yin, Feng (2008-01-01). "Evidence for the massive scale of turtle farming in China". Oryx. 42. Cambridge University Press. pp.147150. doi:10.1017/S0030605308000562. Retrieved 2009-12-26.
^ a b "Turtle farms threaten rare species, experts say". Fish Farmer, 30 March 2007. Their source is an article by James Parham, Shi Haitao and two other authors, published in February 2007 in the journal Conservation Biology.
^ The Top 10 Everything of 2009: Top 10 Scientific Discoveries: 5. Breeding Tuna on Land, Time magazine, December 8, 2009.
Bibliography[edit]
Glenn, C. R. 2006. "Earth's Endangered Creatures".
Ishwaran, N., & Erdelen, W. (2005, May). Biodiversity Futures, Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, 3(4), 179.
Kotiaho, J. S., Kaitala, V., Komonen, A., Pivinen, J. P., & Ehrlich, P. R. (2005, February 8). Predicting the Risk of Extinction from Shared Ecological Characteristics, proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 102(6), 1963-1967.
minteer, B. A., & Collins, J. P. (2005, August). Why we need an "Ecological Ethics", Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, 3(6), 332-337.
Raloff, J. (2006, August 5). Preserving Paradise, Science News, 170(6), 92.
Wilcove, D. S., & Master L. L. (2008, October). How Many Endangered Species are there in the United States? Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment, 3(8), 414-420.
Freedman, Bill. "endangered species." Gale Encyclopedia of Science. Ed. K. Lee Lerner and Brenda Wilmoth Lerner. 4th ed. Detroit: Gale Group, 2008. Discovering Collection. Gale.
Chiras, Daniel D. "Invader Species." Grolier Multimedia Encyclopedia. Grolier Online, 2011.
"endangered Species." Current Issues: Macmillan social Science Library. Detroit: Gale, 2010.
External links[edit]
Endangered species profiles from Earth's endangered Creatures
List of species with the category Endangered as identified by the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species
Endangered Species from UCB Libraries GovPubs
Endangered Species & Wetlands Report Independent print and online newsletter covering the ESA, wetlands and regulatory takings.
USFWS numerical summary of listed species in US and elsewhere
https://worldwildlife.org/species
v
t
e
Threatened species
Template:Threatened species by region
IUCN Red List
Categories1
Extinct
Extinct (EX)
Extinct in the Wild (EW)
Threatened
Critically Endangered (CR)
Endangered (EN)
Vulnerable (VU)
Lower risk
Near Threatened (NT)
Least Concern (LC)
Lower Risk (LR)
Conservation Dependent (LR/cd)
Not fully assessed
Data Deficient (DD)
Not Evaluated (NE)
Species
Lists
Extinct
Extinct in the Wild
Critically Endangered
Endangered
Vulnerable
Near Threatened
Least Concern
Data Deficient
WP categories
Extinct
Extinct in the Wild
Critically Endangered
Endangered
Vulnerable
Near Threatened
Least Concern
Data Deficient
By taxa
Endangered arthropods/ spiders
Threatened Banksia/ rays/ sharks/ sturgeons
The World's 25 Most Endangered Primates
The world's 100 most threatened species
Conservation
Biodiversity action plan
Biodiversity threats
Conservation biology
CITES
ARKive
Bird conservation
Conservation status
Conservation-reliant species
Ecoregion conservation status
Habitat destruction
Latent extinction risk
Rare species
Vulnerability and susceptibility
1 Pre-2001 categories and subcategories shown in italics.
v
t
e
Threatened species by region
By region
Blue-listed
Environmental Vulnerability Index
Regional Red List
Australasia
Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999
ROTAP
Threatened Species Protection Act 1995
Threatened ecological community
Trade in Endangered Species Act 1989
Canada
Species at Risk Act
Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada
Europe
European Endangered Species Programme
Funds for Endangered Parrots
South Africa
Endangered Wildlife Trust
United States
Distinct population segment
Endangered Species Act
Endangered Species Act Amendments of 1978
Endangered species recovery plan
Endangered Wolf Center
National Wildlife Refuge
NatureServe conservation status
The Nature Conservancy
Lists
Asia
List of endangered and protected species of China
Endangered mammals of India
List of endangered animals in India
List of endangered species in Pakistan
List of threatened species of the Philippines
List of endangered species in Vietnam
Europe
Threatened mammals of Europe
Endangered plants of Europe
List of United Kingdom Biodiversity Action Plan species
List of extinct and endangered species of Italy
List of extinct and endangered species of Lithuania
North
America
List of endangered plants in North America
List of endangered species in North America
Endangered mammals and birds of the United States
List of threatened mammals of the United States
List of threatened birds of the United States
List of threatened reptiles and amphibians of the United States
Elsewhere
Threatened fauna of Australia
List of threatened flora of Australia
Official list of endangered flora of Brazil
List of threatened mammals of Brazil
List of threatened birds of Brazil
Endangered Species
Ecology portal
Environment portal
extinct and endangered species portal
v
t
e
Zoos, aquariums and aviaries
Types of zoos
Animal sanctuary
Animal theme park
Aquarium
Aviary
Bear pit
Butterfly house
Dolphinarium
Herpetarium
Insectarium
Nature center
Marine mammal park
Menagerie
Night safari
Oceanarium
Penguinarium
Pheasantry
Petting zoo
Reptile centre
Safari park
Serpentarium
Virtual zoo
Vivarium
Zoo
Conservation
Biodiversity
Endangered species
Ex situ conservation
In situ conservation
reintroduction
Conservation biology
Lists
Aquariums
Conservation topics
Dolphinariums
Zoos
Zoo associations
Other topics
Animals in captivity
Animal training
Behavioral enrichment
Captive breeding
Frozen zoo
Immersion exhibit
Nocturnal house
Wildlife conservation
Zookeeper
Zoological Society
Zoology
Portal
Project
Category
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1285
Cached time: 20161119183211
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.424 seconds
Real time usage: 0.740 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 3125/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 150454/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 7784/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.154/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.59 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
568.999
1 - -total
36.38%
207.009
1 - Template:Redirect
22.79%
129.651
2 - Template:Reflist
13.60%
77.383
15 - Template:Cite_web
10.84%
61.680
7 - Template:Navbox
7.76%
44.148
1 - Template:Citation_needed
7.15%
40.671
1 - Template:Conservation_status
7.01%
39.910
1 - Template:Fix
6.76%
38.449
1 - Template:Infobox
3.86%
21.991
2 - Template:Category_handler
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:20110668-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119183211 and revision id 750431854
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Endangered_species&oldid=750431854"
Categories: Endangered speciesBiota by conservation statusIUCN Red ListEnvironmental conservationHabitatIUCN Red List endangered speciesHidden categories: CS1 errors: external linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from September 2015