EnergyandEnvironmentalScience
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Energy and Environmental Science
Discipline
Environmental science
Language
English
Editedby
Nathan Lewis
Publication details
Publisher
Royal Society of Chemistry(United Kingdom)
Publication history
2008-present
Frequency
Monthly
Impact factor
(2015)
25.427
Indexing
ISSN
1754-5692(print)
1754-5706(web)
LCCN
2009240440
CODEN
EESNBY
OCLCno.
256525221
Links
Journal homepage
Online archive
Energy and Environmental Science is a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal publishing original (primary) research and review articles. The journal covers work of an interdisciplinary nature in the biochemical and biophysical sciences and chemical engineering disciplines.[1] Energy & Environmental Science is published by the Royal Society of Chemistry and the editor-in-chief is Nathan Lewis (California Institute of Technology).
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 25.427, ranking it 4th out of 163 journals in the category "Chemistry, Multidisciplinary",[2] first out of 88 journals in the category "Energy & Fuels",[3] first out of 135 journals in the category "Engineering, Chemical",[4] and first among 225 journals in the category "Environmental Sciences".[5]
Contents
1 Article types
2 Abstracting and indexing
3 References
4 External links
Article types[edit]
Energy & Environmental Science publishes the following types of articles: Research Papers (original scientific work); Review Articles, Perspectives, and Minireviews (feature review-type articles of broad interest); Communications (original scientific work of an urgent nature), Opinions (personal, often speculative, viewpoints or hypotheses on a current topic), and Analysis Articles (in-depth examination of energy and environmental technologies, strategies, policies, and general conceptual frameworks of general interest).
Abstracting and indexing[edit]
According to the Thomson Reuters Master Journal List and CASSI, this journal is indexed by the following services:
Science Citation Index Expanded
Current Contents/ Agriculture, Biology & Environmental Sciences
Current Contents/ Physical, Chemical & Earth Sciences
Current Contents/ Engineering, Computing & Technology
Chemical Abstracts Service - CASSI [6]
References[edit]
^ "About Energy & Environmental Science". Royal Society of Chemistry. Retrieved 2010-01-02.
^ "Journals Ranked by Impact: Chemistry, Multidisciplinary". 2015 Journal Citation Reports. Web of Science (Science ed.). Thomson Reuters. 2016.
^ "Journals Ranked by Impact: Energy & Fuels". 2015 Journal Citation Reports. Web of Science (Science ed.). Thomson Reuters. 2016.
^ "Journals Ranked by Impact: Engineering, Chemical". 2015 Journal Citation Reports. Web of Science (Science ed.). Thomson Reuters. 2016.
^ "Journals Ranked by Impact: Environmental Sciences". 2015 Journal Citation Reports. Web of Science (Science ed.). Thomson Reuters. 2016.
^ Use internet ISSN 1754-5706 to access CASSI entry
External links[edit]
Official website
v
t
e
Royal Society of Chemistry
Membership
Fellowship
Fellows
Hon. Fellows
Awards
Applied Catalysis Award
Beilby Medal and Prize
Charles Rees Award
Chartered Chemist
Chartered Scientist
Corday-Morgan Prizes
De Gennes Prize
Faraday Lectureship Prize
Green Chemistry Award
Harrison-Meldola Memorial Prizes
Edward Harrison Memorial Prize
Meldola Medal
Hickinbottom Award
John B Goodenough Award
Lord Lewis Prize
Ludwig Mond Award
Materials for Industry - Derek Birchall Award
Nyholm Prize for Education
Perkin Prize for Organic Chemistry
Robert Boyle Prize for Analytical Science
Sir George Stokes Award
Tilden Prize
Publications
Chemistry World
ChemSpider
CrystEngCommunity
Education in Chemistry
Issues in Environmental Science and Technology
The Merck Index
Journals
(peer reviewed)
Analyst
Analytical Abstracts
Analytical Methods
Annual Reports on the Progress of Chemistry
A
B
C
Catalysis Science & Technology
Catalysts and Catalysed Reactions
Chemical Communications
Chemical Science
Chemical Society Reviews
Proceedings of the Chemical Society
Chemistry Education Research and Practice
CrystEngComm
Dalton Transactions
Energy and Environmental Science
Environmental Science: Processes & Impacts
Faraday Discussions
Green Chemistry
Integrative Biology
...of Analytical Atomic Spectrometry
...of Materials Chemistry
A
B
C
...of the Chemical Society
A: Inorganic, Physical, Theoretical
B: Physical Organic
C: Organic
D: Chemical Communications
Abstracts
Chemical Communications
Faraday Transactions
Faraday Transactions 1
Faraday Transactions 2
Perkin Transactions 1
Perkin Transactions 2
Transactions
...of the Royal Institute of Chemistry
Jubilee of the Chemical Society
Lab on a Chip
Materials Horizons
MedChemComm
Memoirs and Proceedings of the Chemical Society
Memoirs of the Chemical Society of London
Metallomics
Methods in Organic Synthesis
Molecular BioSystems
Nanoscale
Natural Product Reports
Natural Product Updates
New Journal of Chemistry
Organic and Biomolecular Chemistry
Perkin Transactions
Photochemical and Photobiological Sciences
PhysChemComm
Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics
Polymer Chemistry
Proc. Chemical Society, London
RSC Advances
Soft Matter
Presidents
Ewart Jones
John Cadogan
Richard Norman
Jack Lewis
John Mason Ward
Rex Richards
Charles Rees
John Howard Purnell
Edward William Abel
Anthony Ledwith
Steven Ley
Sir Harold Kroto
Simon Campbell
James Feast
David Garner
David Phillips
Lesley Yellowlees
Dominic Tildesley
John Holman (president elect)
Formed from
Chemical Society
Faraday Society
Royal Institute of Chemistry
Society for Analytical Chemistry
Other
Art collection
Blue plaques
Burlington House
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:20306638-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161107122745 and revision id 726567592
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Energy_and_Environmental_Science&oldid=726567592"
Categories: Chemistry journalsEnergy and fuel journalsMonthly journalsPublications established in 2008Royal Society of Chemistry academic journalsEnvironmental science journalsEnglish-language journalsHidden categories: Pages using deprecated image syntax