Energyrecycling
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Energy recycling is the energy recovery process of utilizing energy that would normally be wasted, usually by converting it into electricity or thermal energy. Undertaken at manufacturing facilities, power plants, and large institutions such as hospitals and universities, it significantly increases efficiency, thereby reducing energy costs and greenhouse gas pollution simultaneously. The process is noted for its potential to mitigate global warming profitably.[1] This work is usually done in the form of combined heat and power (also called cogeneration) or waste heat recovery.
Contents
1 Forms of energy recycling
2 Current system
3 History
4 References
Forms of energy recycling[edit]
Waste heat recovery is a process that captures excess heat that would normally be discharged at manufacturing facilities and converts it into electricity and steam, or returns energy to the manufacturing process in the form of heated air, water, glycol, or oil.[2] A "waste heat recovery boiler" contains a series of water-filled tubes placed throughout the area where heat is released. When high-temperature heat meets the boiler, steam is produced, which in turn powers a turbine that creates electricity. This process is similar to that of other fired boilers, but in this case, waste heat replaces a traditional flame. No fossil fuels are used in this process. Metals, glass, pulp and paper, silicon and other production plants are typical locations where waste heat recovery can be effective.[1]
Waste heat recovery from air conditioning is also used as an alternative to wasting heat to the atmosphere from chiller plants. Heat recovered in summer from chiller plants is stored in Thermalbanks[3] in the ground and recycled back to the same building in winter via a heat pump to provide heating without burning fossil fuels. This elegant approach saves energy - and carbon - in both seasons by recycling summer heat for winter use.
Combined heat and power (CHP), also called cogeneration, is, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, an efficient, clean, and reliable approach to generating electricity and heat energy from a single fuel source. By installing a CHP system designed to meet the thermal and electrical base loads of a facility, CHP can greatly increase the facility's operational efficiency and decrease energy costs. At the same time, CHP reduces the emission of greenhouse gases, which contribute to global climate change. When electricity is produced on-site with a CHP plant, excess heat is recycled to produce both processed heat and additional power.[4][5]
Enabling technologies: Heat pumps and thermal energy storage are classes of technologies that can enable the recycling of energy that would otherwise be inaccessible due to a temperature that is too low for utilization or a time lag between when the energy is available and when it is needed. While enhancing the temperature of available renewable thermal energy, heat pumps have the additional property of leveraging electrical power (or in some cases mechanical or thermal power) by using it to extract additional energy from a low quality source (such as seawater, lake water, the ground, the air, or waste heat from a process).
Thermal storage technologies allow heat or cold to be stored for periods of time ranging from hours or overnight to interseasonal, and can involve storage of sensible energy (i.e. by changing the temperature of a medium) or latent energy (i.e. through phase changes of a medium, such between water and slush or ice). Short-term thermal storages can be used for peak-shaving in district heating or electrical distribution systems. Kinds of renewable or alternative energy sources that can be enabled include natural energy (e.g. collected via solar-thermal collectors, or dry cooling towers used to collect winter's cold), waste energy (e.g. from HVAC equipment, industrial processes or power plants), or surplus energy (e.g. as seasonally from hyropower projects or intermittently from wind farms). The Drake Landing Solar Community (Alberta, Canada) is illustrative. borehole thermal energy storage allows the community to get 97% of its year-round heat from solar collectors on the garage roofs, which most of the heat collected in summer.[6][7] Types of storages for sensible energy include insulated tanks, borehole clusters in substrates ranging from gravel to bedrock, deep aquifers, or shallow lined pits that are insulated on top. Some types of storage are capable of storing heat or cold between opposing seasons (particularly if very large), and some storage applications require inclusion of a heat pump. Latent heat is typically stored in ice tanks or what are called phase-change materials (PCMs).
Current system[edit]
Both waste heat recovery and CHP constitute "decentralized" energy production, which is in contrast to traditional "centralized" power generated at large power plants run by regional utilities.[5] The centralized system has an average efficiency of 34 percent, requiring about three units of fuel to produce one unit of power.[8] By capturing both heat and power, CHP and waste heat recovery projects have higher efficiencies.
A 2007 Department of Energy study found the potential for 135,000 megawatts of CHP in the U.S.,[9] and a Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory study identified about 64,000 megawatts that could be obtained from industrial waste energy, not counting CHP.[10] These studies suggest about 200,000 megawattsor 20% -- of total power capacity that could come from energy recycling in the U.S. Widespread use of energy recycling could therefore reduce global warming emissions by an estimated 20 percent.[11] Indeed, as of 2005, about 42 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas pollution came from the production of electricity and 27 percent from the production of heat.[12][13]
Advocates contend that recycled energy costs less and has lower emissions than most other energy options in current use.[14]
Currently RecyclingEnergy Int. Corp. takes advantage of recycling energy in heat recovery ventilation and latent heat pump and CHCP.[15]
History[edit]
Perhaps the first modern use of energy recycling was done by Thomas Edison. His 1882 Pearl Street Station, the worlds first commercial power plant, was a CHP plant, producing both electricity and thermal energy while using waste heat to warm neighboring buildings.[16] Recycling allowed Edisons plant to achieve approximately 50 percent efficiency.
By the early 1900s, regulations emerged to promote rural electrification through the construction of centralized plants managed by regional utilities. These regulations not only promoted electrification throughout the countryside, but they also discouraged decentralized power generation, such as CHP. They even went so far as to make it illegal for non-utilities to sell power.[17]
By 1978, Congress recognized that efficiency at central power plants had stagnated and sought to encourage improved efficiency with the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act (PURPA), which encouraged utilities to buy power from other energy producers. CHP plants proliferated, soon producing about 8 percent of all energy in the U.S.[18] However, the bill left implementation and enforcement up to individual states, resulting in little or nothing being done in many parts of the country.
In 2008 Tom Casten, chairman of Recycled Energy Development, said that "We think we could make about 19 to 20 percent of U.S. electricity with heat that is currently thrown away by industry."[19]
Outside the U.S., energy recycling is more common. Denmark is probably the most active energy recycler, obtaining about 55% of its energy from CHP and waste heat recovery. Other large countries, including Germany, Russia, and India, also obtain a much higher share of their energy from decentralized sources.[18][19]
References[edit]
^ a b "The Unsung Solution: What rhymes with waste heat recovery?". Orion Magazine, November/December 2007.
^ Energy Recovery Systems, The CMM Group.
^ 'Thermalbanks'
^ "Combined Heat and Power Partnership". U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
^ a b "Clean Heat and Power Association".
^ Wong, Bill (June 28, 2011), "Drake Landing Solar Community", IDEA/CDEA District Energy/CHP 2011 Conference, Toronto, pp. 130, retrieved 21 April 2013
^ Wong B., Thornton J. (2013). Integrating Solar & Heat Pumps. Renewable Heat Workshop.
^ "The Energy Information Administration". U.S government data.
^ Bruce Hedman, Energy and Environmental Analysis/USCHPA, "Combined Heat and Power and Heat Recovery as Energy Efficiency Options", Briefing to Senate Renewable Energy Caucus, September 10, 2007, Washington DC.
^ "Clean Energy Technologies: a Preliminary Inventory of the Potential for Electricity Generation, Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory, 4/05" (PDF).
^ "The Energy Information Administration, Existing Capacity by Energy Source, 2006".
^ "Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks". U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
^ "Emissions of Greenhouse Gases in the United States 2005". U.S. Energy Information Administration,.
^ "Recycled Energy Development, "What RED Does"".
^ http://www.recyclingenergy.com
^ "World's First Commercial Power Plant Was a Cogeneration Plant". Cogeneration Technologies.
^ "Testimony of Sean Casten before Senate subcommittee on Energy, Natural Resources, and Infrastructure, 5/27/07" (PDF).
^ a b "World Survey of Decentralized Energy, 5/06".
^ a b 'Recycling' Energy Seen Saving Companies Money. By David Schaper. May 22, 2008. Morning Edition. National Public Radio.
v
t
e
Recycling
Materials
Aluminium
Asphalt
Concrete
Copper
Cotton
Energy
Ferrous metals
Glass
Gypsum
Paper
Plastic
Refrigerant
Scrap
Timber
Vegetable oil
Water
Products
Appliances
Automotive oil
Batteries
Bottles
PET bottles
Computers
Fluorescent lamps
Lumber
Mobile phones
Paint
Ships
Textiles
Tires
Vehicles
Apparatus
Bins
Blue bags
Blue boxes
Codes
Collection
Materials recovery facility
Waste sorting
Countries
Brazil
Canada
Ireland
Japan
The Netherlands
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Northern Ireland
United States
Concepts
Dematerialization
Downcycling
Eco-industrial park
Ecodesign
Extended producer responsibility
Freecycling
Industrial ecology
Industrial metabolism
Land recycling
Material flow analysis
Precycling
Product stewardship
Recursive recycling
Recycling (ecological)
Resource recovery
Repurposing
Reuse
Upcycling
Urban lumberjacking
Waste hierarchy
Waste minimisation
Waste picking
Zero waste
See also
Cogeneration
Composting
Container deposit legislation
Dumpster diving
Ethical consumerism
Freeganism
Simple living
Waste
Waste-to-energy
Waste collection
Waste legislation
Waste management
Waste management concepts
Environment portal
Category
by country
by material
by product
organizations
Index
Commons
v
t
e
Environmental technology
Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology
Pollution
Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)
Renewable energy
Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)
Conservation
Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1265
Cached time: 20161118185924
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.108 seconds
Real time usage: 0.141 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 633/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 43468/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 9/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 7/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.045/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.91 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
92.063
1 - -total
77.04%
70.928
1 - Template:Reflist
61.81%
56.908
12 - Template:Cite_web
19.11%
17.593
2 - Template:Navbox
17.96%
16.530
1 - Template:Recycling
6.98%
6.430
3 - Template:Icon
4.86%
4.477
1 - Template:Environmental_technology
1.15%
1.055
1 - Template:Column-count
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:15550386-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118185924 and revision id 746461667
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Energy_recycling&oldid=746461667"
Categories: Recycling by materialSustainable technologiesEnergy recoveryEnergy economicsEnergy conservation