Environmentaleconomics
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Not to be confused with ecological economics.
Part of a series about
Environmental economics
Concepts
Green accounting
Green economy
Green trading
Eco commerce
Green job
Environmental enterprise
Fiscal environmentalism
Environmental finance
Renewable energy
Policies
Sustainable tourism
Ecotax
Environmental tariff
Net metering
Environmental pricing reform
Pigovian tax
Dynamics
Renewable energy commercialization
Marginal abatement cost
Green paradox
Green politics
Pollution haven hypothesis
Carbon related
Low-carbon economy
Carbon neutral fuel
Carbon neutrality
Carbon pricing
Emissions trading
Carbon credit
Carbon offset
Carbon emission trading
Personal carbon trading
Carbon tax
Carbon finance
Feed-in tariff
Carbon diet
Food miles
2000-watt society
Carbon footprint
v
t
e
Environmental economics is a sub-field of economics that is concerned with environmental issues. Quoting from the National Bureau of Economic Research Environmental Economics program:
[...] Environmental Economics [...] undertakes theoretical or empirical studies of the economic effects of national or local environmental policies around the world [...]. Particular issues include the costs and benefits of alternative environmental policies to deal with air pollution, water quality, toxic substances, solid waste, and global warming.[1]
Environmental economics is distinguished from ecological economics in that ecological economics emphasizes the economy as a subsystem of the ecosystem with its focus upon preserving natural capital.[2] One survey of German economists found that ecological and environmental economics are different schools of economic thought, with ecological economists emphasizing "strong" sustainability and rejecting the proposition that natural capital can be substituted by human-made capital.[3]
Contents
1 Topics and concepts
1.1 Market failure
1.2 Externality
1.3 Common goods and public goods
1.4 Valuation
2 Solutions
3 Relationship to other fields
4 Professional bodies
5 See also
5.1 Hypotheses and theorems
6 Notes
7 References
Topics and concepts[edit]
Economics
World GDP (PPP) per capita by country(2015)
Index
Outline
Category
History
Types
Classification
History of economics
Economic history (academic study)
Schools of economics
Microeconomics
Macroeconomics
Methodology
Heterodox economics
JEL classification codes
Concepts
Theory
Techniques
Econometrics
Economic growth
Economic system
Experimental economics
Mathematical economics
Game theory
Market
National accounting
By application
Agricultural
Behavioral
Business
Computational
Cultural
Demographic
Development
Digitization
Ecological
Education
Environmental
Evolutionary
Expeditionary
Geography
Health
Industrial organization
Information
International
Knowledge
Labour
Law
Managerial
Monetary/ Financial
Natural resource
Personnel
Public/ Welfare economics
Regional
Rural
Service
Urban
Welfare
Lists
Economists
Publications(journals)
Business and economics portal
v
t
e
Market failure[edit]
Central to environmental economics is the concept of market failure. Market failure means that markets fail to allocate resources efficiently. As stated by Hanley, Shogren, and White (2007) in their textbook Environmental Economics:[4] "A market failure occurs when the market does not allocate scarce resources to generate the greatest social welfare. A wedge exists between what a private person does given market prices and what society might want him or her to do to protect the environment. Such a wedge implies wastefulness or economic inefficiency; resources can be reallocated to make at least one person better off without making anyone else worse off." Common forms of market failure include externalities, non-excludability and non-rivalry.
Externality[edit]
An externality exists when a person makes a choice that affects other people in a way that is not accounted for in the market price. An externality can be positive or negative, but is usually associated with negative externalities in environmental economics. For instance, water seepage in residential buildings happen in upper floor affect the lower floor.[5] Or a firm emitting pollution will typically not take into account the costs that its pollution imposes on others. As a result, pollution may occur in excess of the 'socially efficient' level, which is the level that would exist if the market was required to account for the pollution. A classic definition influenced by Kenneth Arrow and James Meade is provided by Heller and Starrett (1976), who define an externality as a situation in which the private economy lacks sufficient incentives to create a potential market in some good and the nonexistence of this market results in losses of Pareto efficiency.[6] In economic terminology, externalities are examples of market failures, in which the unfettered market does not lead to an efficient outcome.
Common goods and public goods[edit]
When it is too costly to exclude some people from access to an environmental resource, the resource is either called a common property resource (when there is rivalry for the resource, such that one person's use of the resource reduces others' opportunity to use the resource) or a public good (when use of the resource is non-rivalrous). In either case of non-exclusion, market allocation is likely to be inefficient.
These challenges have long been recognized. Hardin's (1968) concept of the tragedy of the commons popularized the challenges involved in non-exclusion and common property. "Commons" refers to the environmental asset itself, "common property resource" or "common pool resource" refers to a property right regime that allows for some collective body to devise schemes to exclude others, thereby allowing the capture of future benefit streams; and "open-access" implies no ownership in the sense that property everyone owns nobody owns.[7]
The basic problem is that if people ignore the scarcity value of the commons, they can end up expending too much effort, over harvesting a resource (e.g., a fishery). Hardin theorizes that in the absence of restrictions, users of an open-access resource will use it more than if they had to pay for it and had exclusive rights, leading to environmental degradation. See, however, Ostrom's (1990) work on how people using real common property resources have worked to establish self-governing rules to reduce the risk of the tragedy of the commons.[7]
The mitigation of climate change effects is an example of a public good, where the social benefits are not reflected completely in the market price. This is a public good since the risks of climate change are both non-rival and non-excludable. Such efforts are non-rival since climate mitigation provided to one does not reduce the level of mitigation that anyone else enjoys. They are non-excludable actions as they will have global consequences from which no one can be excluded. A country's incentive to invest in carbon abatement is reduced because it can "free ride" off the efforts of other countries. Over a century ago, Swedish economist Knut Wicksell (1896) first discussed how public goods can be under-provided by the market because people might conceal their preferences for the good, but still enjoy the benefits without paying for them.
GLOBAL BIOGEOCHEMICAL CYCLES CRITICAL FOR LIFE
Nitrogen Cycle
Water Cycle
Carbon Cycle
Oxygen Cycle
Valuation[edit]
Assessing the economic value of the environment is a major topic within the field. Use and indirect use are tangible benefits accruing from natural resources or ecosystem services (see the nature section of ecological economics). Non-use values include existence, option, and bequest values. For example, some people may value the existence of a diverse set of species, regardless of the effect of the loss of a species on ecosystem services. The existence of these species may have an option value, as there may be the possibility of using it for some human purpose (certain plants may be researched for drugs). Individuals may value the ability to leave a pristine environment to their children.
Use and indirect use values can often be inferred from revealed behavior, such as the cost of taking recreational trips or using hedonic methods in which values are estimated based on observed prices. Non-use values are usually estimated using stated preference methods such as contingent valuation or choice modelling. Contingent valuation typically takes the form of surveys in which people are asked how much they would pay to observe and recreate in the environment (willingness to pay) or their willingness to accept (WTA) compensation for the destruction of the environmental good. Hedonic pricing examines the effect the environment has on economic decisions through housing prices, traveling expenses, and payments to visit parks.[8]
Solutions[edit]
Solutions advocated to correct such externalities include:
Environmental regulations. Under this plan, the economic impact has to be estimated by the regulator. Usually this is done using cost-benefit analysis. There is a growing realization that regulations (also known as "command and control" instruments) are not so distinct from economic instruments as is commonly asserted by proponents of environmental economics. E.g.1 regulations are enforced by fines, which operate as a form of tax if pollution rises above the threshold prescribed. E.g.2 pollution must be monitored and laws enforced, whether under a pollution tax regime or a regulatory regime. The main difference an environmental economist would argue exists between the two methods, however, is the total cost of the regulation. "Command and control" regulation often applies uniform emissions limits on polluters, even though each firm has different costs for emissions reductions. Some firms, in this system, can abate inexpensively, while others can only abate at high cost. Because of this, the total abatement has some expensive and some inexpensive efforts to abate. Consequently, modern "Command and control" regulations are oftentimes designed in a way, which addresses these issues by incorporating utility parameters. For instance, CO2 emission standards for specific manufacturers in the automotive industry are either linked to the average vehicle footprint (US system) or average vehicle weight (EU system) of their entire vehicle fleet. Environmental economic regulations find the cheapest emission abatement efforts first, then the more expensive methods second. E.g. as said earlier, trading, in the quota system, means a firm only abates if doing so would cost less than paying someone else to make the same reduction. This leads to a lower cost for the total abatement effort as a whole.[citation needed]
Quotas on pollution. Often it is advocated that pollution reductions should be achieved by way of tradeable emissions permits, which if freely traded may ensure that reductions in pollution are achieved at least cost. In theory, if such tradeable quotas are allowed, then a firm would reduce its own pollution load only if doing so would cost less than paying someone else to make the same reduction. In practice, tradeable permits approaches have had some success, such as the U.S.'s sulphur dioxide trading program or the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, and interest in its application is spreading to other environmental problems.
Taxes and tariffs on pollution/Removal of "dirty subsidies." Increasing the costs of polluting will discourage polluting, and will provide a "dynamic incentive," that is, the disincentive continues to operate even as pollution levels fall. A pollution tax that reduces pollution to the socially "optimal" level would be set at such a level that pollution occurs only if the benefits to society (for example, in form of greater production) exceeds the costs. Some advocate a major shift from taxation from income and sales taxes to tax on pollution - the so-called "green tax shift."
Better defined property rights. The Coase Theorem states that assigning property rights will lead to an optimal solution, regardless of who receives them, if transaction costs are trivial and the number of parties negotiating is limited. For example, if people living near a factory had a right to clean air and water, or the factory had the right to pollute, then either the factory could pay those affected by the pollution or the people could pay the factory not to pollute. Or, citizens could take action themselves as they would if other property rights were violated. The US River Keepers Law of the 1880s was an early example, giving citizens downstream the right to end pollution upstream themselves if government itself did not act (an early example of bioregional democracy). Many markets for "pollution rights" have been created in the late twentieth centurysee emissions trading.
Relationship to other fields[edit]
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Environmental economics is related to ecological economics but there are differences. Most environmental economists have been trained as economists. They apply the tools of economics to address environmental problems, many of which are related to so-called market failurescircumstances wherein the "invisible hand" of economics is unreliable. Most ecological economists have been trained as ecologists, but have expanded the scope of their work to consider the impacts of humans and their economic activity on ecological systems and services, and vice versa. This field takes as its premise that economics is a strict subfield of ecology. Ecological economics is sometimes described as taking a more pluralistic approach to environmental problems and focuses more explicitly on long-term environmental sustainability and issues of scale.
Environmental economics is viewed as more pragmatic in a price system; ecological economics as more idealistic in its attempts not to use money as a primary arbiter of decisions. These two groups of specialists sometimes have conflicting views which may be traced to the different philosophical underpinnings.
Another context in which externalities apply is when globalization permits one player in a market who is unconcerned with biodiversity to undercut prices of another who is - creating a race to the bottom in regulations and conservation. This in turn may cause loss of natural capital with consequent erosion, water purity problems, diseases, desertification, and other outcomes which are not efficient in an economic sense. This concern is related to the subfield of sustainable development and its political relation, the anti-globalization movement.
The three pillars of sustainability (clickable)
Environmental economics was once distinct from resource economics. Natural resource economics as a subfield began when the main concern of researchers was the optimal commercial exploitation of natural resource stocks. But resource managers and policy-makers eventually began to pay attention to the broader importance of natural resources (e.g. values of fish and trees beyond just their commercial exploitation;, externalities associated with mining). It is now difficult to distinguish "environmental" and "natural resource" economics as separate fields as the two became associated with sustainability. Many of the more radical green economists split off to work on an alternate political economy.
Environmental economics was a major influence for the theories of natural capitalism and environmental finance, which could be said to be two sub-branches of environmental economics concerned with resource conservation in production, and the value of biodiversity to humans, respectively. The theory of natural capitalism (Hawken, Lovins, Lovins) goes further than traditional environmental economics by envisioning a world where natural services are considered on par with physical capital.
The more radical Green economists reject neoclassical economics in favour of a new political economy beyond capitalism or communism that gives a greater emphasis to the interaction of the human economy and the natural environment, acknowledging that "economy is three-fifths of ecology" - Mike Nickerson.
These more radical approaches would imply changes to money supply and likely also a bioregional democracy so that political, economic, and ecological "environmental limits" were all aligned, and not subject to the arbitrage normally possible under capitalism.
An emerging sub-field of environmental economics studies its intersection with development economics. Dubbed "envirodevonomics" by Michael Greenstone and B. Kelsey Jack in their paper "Envirodevonomics: A Research Agenda for a Young Field,"[9] the sub-field is primarily interested in studying "why environmental quality [is] so poor in developing countries."[10] A strategy for better understanding this correlation between a country's GDP and its environmental quality involves analyzing how many of the central concepts of environmental economics, including market failures, externalities, and willingness to pay, may be complicated by the particular problems facing developing countries, such as political issues, lack of infrastructure, or inadequate financing tools, among many others.[11]
Professional bodies[edit]
The main academic and professional organizations for the discipline of Environmental Economics are the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists (AERE) and the European Association for Environmental and Resource Economics (EAERE). The main academic and professional organization for the discipline of Ecological Economics is the International Society for Ecological Economics (ISEE). The main organization for Green Economics is the Green Economics Institute.
See also[edit]
ISO 14000 an eco standard.
Agroecology
Economics of global warming
Carbon finance
Carbon negative fuel
Climate change in Washington
Earth Economics (policy think tank)
Eco-capitalism
Eco commerce
Ecometrics
Eco-Money
Ecological economics
Eco-socialism
Ecosystem Marketplace
Ecotax
Energy balance
Environmental accounting
Environmental credit crunch
Environmental enterprise
Environmental finance
Environmental Investment Organisation
Environmental pricing reform
Environmental tariff
Fair trade
Fiscal environmentalism
Free-market environmentalism
Green banking
Green economy
Green libertarianism
Green syndicalism
Green trading
Journal of Environmental Economics and Management
Natural capital
Natural resource
Natural resource economics
Principles of ecopreneurship
Property rights (economics)
Renewable resource
Risk assessment
Strategic Sustainable Investing (SSI)
Systems ecology
World Ecological Forum
Hypotheses and theorems[edit]
Coase theorem
Porter hypothesis
Notes[edit]
^ "Environmental Economics". NBER Working Group Descriptions. National Bureau of Economic Research. Retrieved 2006-07-23.
^ Jeroen C.J.M. van den Bergh (2001). "Ecological Economics: Themes, Approaches, and Differences with Environmental Economics," Regional Environmental Change, 2(1), pp. 13-23 (press +).
^ Illge L, Schwarze R. (2006). A Matter of Opinion: How Ecological and Neoclassical Environmental Economists Think about Sustainability and Economics . German Institute
^ Hanley, N., J. Shogren, and B. White (2007). Environmental Economics in Theory and Practice, Palgrave, London.
^ Rita Yi Man Li (2012), The Internalisation Of Environmental Externalities Affecting Dwellings: A Review Of Court Cases In Hong Kong, Economic Affairs, Volume 32, Issue 2, pages 8187
^ Heller, Walter P. and David A. Starrett (1976), On the Nature of Externalities, in: Lin, Stephen A.Y. (ed.), Theory and Measurement of Economic Externalities, Academic Press, New York, p.10
^ a b Ostrom, E. 1990. Governing the Commons. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
^ Harris J. (2006). Environmental and Natural Resource Economics: A Contemporary Approach. Houghton Mifflin Company.
^ Greenstone, Michael; Jack, B. Kelsey (September 2013). "Envirodevonomics: A Research Agenda for a Young Field". NBER (19426). Retrieved 15 January 2015.
^ Greenstone, Michael; Jack, B. Kelsey (September 2013). "Envirodevonomics: A Research Agenda for a Young Field". NBER (19426): 3. Retrieved 15 January 2015.
^ Inclusive green growth the pathway to sustainable development. (PDF). Washington, D.C.: World Bank. May 2012. pp.1213. ISBN978-0-8213-9552-3. Retrieved 15 January 2015.
References[edit]
Allen K. Kneese and Clifford S. Russell (1987). "environmental economics," The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics, v. 2, pp.15964.
Robert N. Stavins (2008). "environmental economics," The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd Edition. Abstract & article.
Maureen L. Cropper and Wallace E. Oates (1992). "Environmental Economics: A Survey," Journal of Economic Literature, 30(2), pp. 675-740(press +).
David Pearce (2002). "An Intellectual History Of Environmental Economics", Annual Review of Energy and the Environment 2002, 27:5781.
UNEP (2007). Guidelines for Conducting Economic Valuation of Coastal Ecosystem Goods and Services, UNEP/GEF/SCS Technical Publication No. 8.
UNEP (2007). Procedure for Determination of National and Regional Economic Values for Ecotone Goods and Services, and Total Economic Values of Coastal Habitats in the context of the UNEP/GEF Project Entitled: Reversing Environmental Degradation Trends in the South China Sea and Gulf of Thailand, South China Sea Knowledge Document No. 3. UNEP/GEF/SCS/Inf.3
v
t
e
Environmental science
Main fields
Atmospheric sciences
Biogeochemistry
Ecology
Environmental chemistry
Geosciences
Hydrology
Limnology
Oceanography
Soil science
Related fields
Biology
Chemistry
green
Ecological economics
Environmental design
Environmental economics
Environmental engineering
Environmental health
epidemiology
Environmental studies
Environmental toxicology
Geodesy
Physics
Sustainability science
Systems ecology
Urban ecology
Applications
Energy conservation
Environmental technology
Natural resource management
Pollution control
Recycling
Remediation
Renewable energy
Sewage treatment
Urban metabolism
Water purification
Waste management
See also
Human impact on the environment
Sustainability
Environment portal
Category
scientists
Glossary
Degrees
Institutions
Journals
Research institutes
v
t
e
Environmental social science
Fields
Ecological anthropology
Ecological economics
Environmental anthropology
Environmental economics
Environmental communication
Environmental history
Environmental politics
Environmental psychology
Environmental sociology
Human ecology
Human geography
Political ecology
Regional science
Related
Agroecology
Anthrozoology
Behavioral geography
Community studies
Demography
Design
ecological
environmental
Ecological humanities
Economics
energy
thermo
Environmental
education
ethics
law
science
studies
Ethnobiology
botany
ecology
zoology
Forestry
Industrial ecology
Integrated geography
Permaculture
Rural sociology
Science, technology and society
science studies
Sustainability
science
studies
Systems ecology
Urban
ecology
geography
metabolism
studies
Applied
Architecture
landscape
sustainable
Ecopsychology
Engineering
ecological
environmental
Green criminology
Health
environmental
epidemiology
occupational
public
Management
environmental
fisheries
forest
natural resource
waste
Planning
environmental
land use
regional
spatial
urban
Policy
energy
environmental
Environment portal
Category
Concepts
Degrees
Institutions
Journals
Research institutes
Scholars
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
Authority control
GND: 4061638-1
NDL: 00857646
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1237
Cached time: 20161119044537
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.212 seconds
Real time usage: 0.294 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1203/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 90196/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 677/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.076/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.06 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
203.652
1 - -total
16.15%
32.890
1 - Template:Citation_needed
14.65%
29.844
2 - Template:Sidebar
14.59%
29.712
1 - Template:Fix
12.34%
25.128
1 - Template:Cite_web
11.88%
24.201
1 - Template:Economics_sidebar
9.46%
19.267
3 - Template:Navbox
9.02%
18.369
2 - Template:Category_handler
8.24%
16.781
1 - Template:Distinguish
8.10%
16.495
1 - Template:Authority_control
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:47763-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119044536 and revision id 727388293
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_economics&oldid=727388293"
Categories: Environmental economicsEnvironmental social scienceIndustrial ecologyMarket failureHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from May 2012Articles needing additional references from August 2012All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles with GND identifiers