Environmentallyresponsible
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Environmentally responsible)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Part of a series on
Green politics
Core topics
Green politics
Green party
List of topics
Four Pillars
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Grassroots democracy
Nonviolence
Perspectives
Bright green environmentalism
Deep ecology
Eco-capitalism
Eco-feminism
Eco-nationalism
Eco-socialism
Green anarchism
Green conservatism
Green left
Green liberalism
Green libertarianism
Green syndicalism
Social ecology
Green Zionism
Organizations
Asia Pacific Greens Federation
European Green Party
Federation of Green Parties of Africa
Federation of the Green Parties of the Americas
Federation of Young European Greens
Global Greens
Global Young Greens
Related topics
Anti-environmentalism
Climate change politics
Conservation movement
Eco-terrorism
Ecocentrism
Ecological modernization
Environmental issues
Environmental justice
Environmental movement
Environmentalism
Politics portal
Environment portal
v
t
e
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Ecosophy or ecophilosophy (a portmanteau of ecological philosophy) is a philosophy of ecological harmony or equilibrium. The term was coined by the Norwegian father of deep ecology, Arne Nss, and French post-Marxist philosopher and psychoanalyst Flix Guattari.
Contents
1 Nss's definition
2 Flix Guattari
3 See also
4 Notes
5 References
6 External links
Nss's definition[edit]
Naess defined ecosophy in the following way:
By an ecosophy I mean a philosophy of ecological harmony or equilibrium. A philosophy as a kind of sofia (or) wisdom, is openly normative, it contains both norms, rules, postulates, value priority announcements and hypotheses concerning the state of affairs in our universe. Wisdom is policy wisdom, prescription, not only scientific description and prediction. The details of an ecosophy will show many variations due to significant differences concerning not only the 'facts' of pollution, resources, population, etc. but also value priorities.
A. Drengson and Y. Inoue, 1995, page 8
While a professor at University of Oslo in 1972, Arne Nss, introduced the terms "deep ecology movement" and "ecosophy" into environmental literature. Naess based his article on a talk he gave in Bucharest in 1972 at the Third World Future Research Conference. As Drengson notes in Ecophilosophy, Ecosophy and the Deep Ecology Movement: An Overview, "In his talk Nss discussed the longer-range background of the ecology movement and its connection with respect for Nature and the inherent worth of other beings." Naess's view of humans as an integral part of a "total-field image[1]" of Nature contrasts with the alternative (and more anthropocentric) construction of ecosophy outlined by Guattari.
The term ecological wisdom, synonymous with ecosophy, was introduced by Nss in 1973. The concept has become one of the foundations of the deep ecology movement. All expressions of values by Green Parties list ecological wisdom as a key valueit was one of the original Four Pillars of the Green Party and is often considered the most basic value of these parties. It is also often associated with indigenous religion and cultural practices. In its political context, it is necessarily not as easily defined as ecological health or scientific ecology concepts.
Flix Guattari[edit]
Ecosophy also refers to a field of practice introduced by psychoanalyst, poststructuralist philosopher and political activist Flix Guattari. In part Guattari's use of the term demarcates what he observes as the necessity for the proponents of social liberation whose struggles in the 20th century were dominated by the paradigm of social revolution and Marxism to embed their arguments within an ecological framework which understands the interconnections of social and environmental spheres.
Guattari holds that traditional environmentalist perspectives obscure the complexity of the relationship between humans and their natural environment through its maintenance of the dualistic separation of human (cultural) and nonhuman (natural) systems; he envisions ecosophy as a new field with a monistic and pluralistic approach to such study. Ecology in the Guattarian sense then, is a study of complex phenomena, including human subjectivity, the environment, and social relations, all of which are intimately interconnected. Despite this emphasis on interconnection, throughout his individual writings and more famous collaborations with Gilles Deleuze, Guattari has resisted calls for holism, preferring to emphasize heterogeneity and difference, synthesizing assemblages and multiplicities in order to trace rhizomatic structures rather than creating unified and holistic structures.
Without modifications to the social and material environment, there can be no change in mentalities. Here, we are in the presence of a circle that leads me to postulate the necessity of founding an "ecosophy" that would link environmental ecology to social ecology and to mental ecology.
Guattari 1996: 264
Guattari's concept of the three interacting and interdependent ecologies of mind, society, and environment stems from the outline of the three ecologies presented in Steps to an Ecology of Mind, a collection of writings by cyberneticist Gregory Bateson.
See also[edit]
Ecology
Global Greens Charter
Green syndicalism
Simple living
Spiritual ecology
Sustainable living
Yin and yang
Environmental philosophy
Notes[edit]
^ Nss, Arne. (1972): Shallow and the Deep. Oslo: Inquiry.
References[edit]
Drengson, A. and Y. Inoue, eds. (1995) The Deep Ecology Movement: An Introductory Anthology. Berkeley: North Atlantic Publishers.
Guattari, Flix:Remaking Social Practices. In: Genosko, Gary (Hg.) (1996): The Guattari Reader. Oxford, Blackwell, S. 262-273.
Maybury-Lewis, David. (1992) "On the Importance of Being Tribal: Tribal Wisdom." Millennium: Tribal Wisdom and the Modern World. Binimun Productions Ltd.
Nss, Arne. (1973) The Shallow and the Deep Long-Range Ecology Movement: A Summary". Inquiry, 16:95-100
Drengson A. & B. Devall (2008) (Eds) The Ecology of Wisdom. Writings by Arne Naess. Berkeley: Counterpoint
External links[edit]
Ecophilosophy, Ecosophy and the Deep Ecology Movement: An Overview by Alan Drengson Ecospherics.net. Accessed 2005-08-14.
Transversalising the Ecological Turn: Four Components of Felix Guattaris Ecosophical Perspective by John Tinnell Fibreculturejournal.org. Accessed 2012-02-04.
The Trumpeter, A Journal of Ecosophy.
v
t
e
Environmental humanities
Art
Crop art
Environmental art
Environmental sculpture
Land art
Landscape painting
Photography
conservation
landscape
nature
wildlife
Sculpture trail
Site-specific art
Sustainable art
Culture
Cultural ecology
Cultural landscape
Ecolinguistics
Ecological anthropology
Ecosemiotics
Environmental anthropology
Ethnoecology
Traditional ecological knowledge
Literature
Ecocomposition
Ecocriticism
Ecopoetry
Geocriticism
Nature writing
Outdoor literature
Zoopoetics
Philosophy
Constructivism
Cosmology
Critical realism
Deep ecology
Ecofeminism
Ecophenomenology
Ecosophy
Environmental ethics
Environmental justice
Environmental philosophy
Materialism
Natural philosophy
Philosophy of mind
Philosophy of science
Social ecology
Religion
Ecotheology
Environmental theology
Religion and environmentalism
Spiritual ecology
Stewardship
Other
Anthrozoology
Ecomusicology
Environmental communication
Environmental education
adult
arts-based
Environmental history
Environmental interpretation
Environmental journalism
Environmental law
Outdoor education
Psychogeography
Thematic interpretation
Related
Animal studies
Bioethics
Biophilia hypothesis
Do it yourself (ethic)
Natural history (museums)
Popular science
Property theory (common property)
Science, technology and society
science studies
Simple living
Slow food
Spirit of place
Sustainability studies
Applied
Arts and Crafts movement
Acoustic ecology
Biomimicry
Ecodesign
Ecological design
Ecomuseum
Educational trail
Environmental design
Landscape architecture
assessment
planning
Nature center
New Urbanism
Sustainable architecture
Sustainable design
Sustainable fashion
Themed walk
Transition design
Urban acupuncture
Environment portal
Category
Commons
Journals
Degrees
Institutions
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:306064-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161112000203 and revision id 731173700
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ecosophy&oldid=731173700"
Categories: EcologyPostmodern theoryEnvironmental philosophyEnvironmentalismHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from October 2014All articles needing additional references