Ethicalconsumerism
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Ethical consumerism (alternatively called ethical consumption, ethical purchasing, moral purchasing, ethical sourcing, ethical shopping or green consumerism) is a type of consumer activism that is based on the concept of dollar voting.[1] It is practiced through 'positive buying' in that ethical products are favoured, or 'moral boycott', that is negative purchasing and company-based purchasing.[2]
The term "ethical consumer", now used generically, was first popularised by the UK magazine Ethical Consumer, first published in 1989.[3] Ethical Consumer magazine's key innovation was to produce 'ratings tables', inspired by the criteria-based approach of the then emerging ethical investment movement. Ethical Consumer's ratings tables awarded companies negative marks (and from 2005 overall scores) across a range of ethical and environmental categories such as 'animal rights', 'human rights' and 'pollution and toxics', empowering consumers to make ethically informed consumption choices and providing campaigners with reliable information on corporate behaviour. Such criteria-based ethical and environmental ratings have subsequently become commonplace both in providing consumer information and in business-to-business corporate social responsibility and sustainability ratings such as those provided by Innovest, Calvert Foundation, Domini, IRRC, TIAACREF and KLD Analytics. Today, Bloomberg and Reuters provide "environmental, social and governance" ratings direct to the financial data screens of hundreds of thousands of stock market traders.[4] The not-for-profit Ethical Consumer Research Association continues to publish Ethical Consumer and its associated website, which provides free access to ethical ratings tables.
Contents
1 Basis
1.1 Global morality
1.2 Spending as morality
1.3 Growing diverse use of the term
2 Standards and labels
3 Areas of concern
4 Research
5 Related concepts
5.1 Conscientious consumption
5.2 Alternative giving
6 Criticism
7 See also
8 References
9 Further reading
Basis[edit]
Global morality[edit]
An electric wire reel reused as a center table in a Rio de Janeiro decoration fair. When consumers choose and reuse environmentally friendly material like this, they are practicing ethical consumerism.
In Unequal Freedoms: The Global Market As An Ethical System (1998), John McMurtry argues that no purchasing decision exists that does not itself imply some moral choice, and that there is no purchasing that is not ultimately moral in nature. This mirrors older arguments, especially by the Anabaptists, e.g. Mennonites, Amish, that one must accept all personal moral and spiritual liability of all harms done at any distance in space or time to anyone by one's own choices. It is often suggested that Judeo-Christian scriptures further direct followers towards practising good stewardship of the Earth, under an obligation to a God who is believed to have created the planet for us to share with other creatures. A similar argument presented from a secular humanist point of view is that it is simply better for human beings to acknowledge that the planet supports life only because of a delicate balance of many different factors.
Spending as morality[edit]
Some trust criteria, e.g. creditworthiness or implied warranty, are considered to be part of any purchasing or sourcing decision. However, these terms refer to broader systems of guidance that would, ideally, cause any purchasing decision to disqualify offered products or services based on non-price criteria that affect the moral rather than the functional liabilities of the entire production process. Paul Hawken, a proponent of Natural Capitalism, refers to "comprehensive outcomes" of production services as opposed to the "culminative outcomes" of using the product of such services.[citation needed] Often, moral criteria are part of a much broader shift away from commodity markets towards a deeper service economy where all activities, from growing to harvesting to processing to delivery, are considered part of the value chain and for which consumers are "responsible".
Andrew Wilson, Director of the UK's Ashridge Centre for Business and Society, argues that "Shopping is more important than voting", and that the disposition of money is the most basic role we play in any system of economics.[5] Some theorists believe that it is the clearest way that we express our actual moral choices, i.e., if we say we care about something but continue to buy from parties that have a high probability of risk of harm or destruction of that thing, we don't really care about it, we are practicing a form of simple hypocrisy.
In an effort by churches to advocate moral and ethical consumerism, many have become involved in the Fair Trade movement:
Ten Thousand Villages is affiliated with the Mennonite Central Committee[6]
SERRV International[7] is partnered with Catholic Relief Services[8] and Lutheran World Relief[9]
Village Markets of Africa sells Fair Trade gifts from the Lutheran Church in Kenya[10][11]
Catholic Relief Services has their own Fair Trade mission in CRS Fair Trade[12]
Growing diverse use of the term[edit]
As large corporations have tried to position themselves as moral, principled or ethical organisations, the definition has become wider and means different things to different groups of people. For example, McDonald's started to sell salads (a more healthy choice) and has a corporate social responsibility blog. Ethical Consumerism can be seen as a movement in marketing, which may or may not reflect actual changes in the practices of businesses. Particular areas of interest for large businesses are environmental impact and the treatment of workers at the bottom of the organisational hierarchy. This change reflects an increasing awareness of ethical issues and corporate identity amongst mainstream consumers.
Standards and labels[edit]
A number of standards, labels and marks have been introduced for ethical consumers, such as the following:
B corporation
Co-op Marque
Dolphin safe
EKOenergy for electricity agreements
Equal Exchange
Ethical Consumer Best Buy label
Fairtrade
Free-range poultry
FSC-certified sustainably sourced wood
Grass fed beef
Green America Seal of Approval
Halal (religious standard)
Kosher (religious standard)
Local food
Made in USA
MSC-certified sustainably sourced seafood
No Pork No Lard (semi-religious standard)
Organic food
Organic Trade Association
Product Red
Rainforest Alliance certified
Recycled/recyclable
Respects Your Freedom
Shade-grown coffee
Social Accountability 8000
Union-made
Vegan
Along with disclosure of ingredients, some mandatory labelling of origins of clothing or food is required in all developed nations. This practice has been extended in some developing nations, e.g., where every item carries the name, phone number and fax number of the factory where it was made so a buyer can inspect its conditions. And, more importantly, to prove that the item was not made by "prison labor", use of which to produce export goods is banned in most developed nations. Such labels have also been used for boycotts, as when the merchandise mark Made in Germany was introduced in 1887.
These labels serve as tokens of some reliable validation process, some instructional capital,[13] much as does a brand name or a nation's flag. They also signal some social capital, or trust, in some community of auditors that must follow those instructions to validate those labels.
Some companies in the United States, though currently not required to reduce their carbon footprint, are doing so voluntarily by changing their energy use practices, as well as by directly funding (through carbon offsets), businesses that are already sustainableor are developing or improving green technologies for the future.
In 2009, Atlanta's Virginia-Highland neighborhood became the first Carbon-Neutral Zone in the United States. Seventeen merchants in Virginia-Highland allowed their carbon footprint to be audited. Now, they are partnered with the Valley Wood Carbon Sequestration Projectthousands of acres of forest in rural Georgiathrough the Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX).[14][15] The businesses involved in the partnership display the Verus Carbon Neutral seal in each store front and posted a sign prominently declaring the area's Carbon Neutral status. (CCX ceased trading carbon credits at the end of 2010 due to inactivity in the U.S. carbon markets,[16] although carbon exchanges were intended to still be facilitated.)[17][18]
Over time, some[who?] theorists suggest, the amount of social capital or trust invested in nation-states (or "flags") will continue to decrease, and that placed in corporations (or "brands") will increase. This can only be offset by retrenched national sovereignty to reinforce shared national standards in tax, trade, and tariff laws, and by placing the trust in civil society in such "moral labels". These arguments have been a major focus of the anti-globalization movement, which includes many broader arguments against the amoral nature of markets as such. However, the economic school of Public Choice Theory pioneered by James M. Buchanan has offered counter-arguments based on economic demonstration to this theory of 'amoral markets' versus 'moral governments'.
Areas of concern[edit]
Ethical Consumer Research Association, the alternative consumer organisation, collects and categorises information of more than 30,000 companies according to their performance in five main areas, composing the Ethiscore:
Environment: Environmental Reporting, Nuclear Power, Climate Change, Pollution & Toxics, Habitats & Resources
People: Human Rights, Workers' Rights, Supply Chain Policy, Irresponsible Marketing, Armaments
Animals: Animal Testing, Factory Farming, Other Animal Rights
Politics: Political Activity, Boycott Call, Genetic Engineering, Anti-Social Finance, Company Ethos
Product Sustainability: Organic, Fairtrade, Positive Environmental Features, Other Sustainability.[19]
Research[edit]
GfK NOP, the market research group, has made a five-country study of consumer beliefs about the ethics of large companies. The report was described in a Financial Times article published on February 20, 2007 entitled "Ethical consumption makes mark on branding",[20] and was followed up by an online debate/discussion hosted by FT.com.[21] The countries surveyed were Germany, the United States, Britain, France and Spain. More than half of respondents in Germany and the US believed there is a serious deterioration in standards of corporate practice. Almost half of those surveyed in Britain, France and Spain held similar beliefs.
About a third of respondents told researchers they would pay higher prices for ethical brands though perception of various companies' ethical or unethical status varied considerably from country to country.
The most ethically perceived brands were The Co-op (in the UK), Coca-Cola (in the US), Danone (in France), Adidas (in Germany) and Nestl (in Spain). Coca-Cola, Danone, Adidas and Nestl did not appear anywhere in the UK's list of 15 most ethical companies. Nike appeared in the lists of the other four countries but not in the UK's list.
In the UK, The Co-operative Bank has produced an Ethical Consumerism Report[22] (formerly the Ethical Purchasing Index) since 2001. The report measures the market size and growth of a basket of 'ethical' products and services, and valued UK ethical consumerism at GBP36.0 billion (~USD54.4 billion) in 2008, and GBP47.2 billion (USD72.5 billion) in 2012.
A number of organisations provide research-based evaluations of the behavior of companies around the world, assessing them along ethical dimensions such as human rights, the environment, animal welfare and politics. Green America is a not-for-profit membership organization founded in 1982 that provides the Green American Seal of Approval and produces a "Responsible Shopper" guide to "alert consumers and investors to problems with companies that they may shop with or invest in."[23] The Ethical Consumer Research Association is a not-for-profit workers' co-operative founded in the UK in 1988 to "provide information on the companies behind the brand names and to promote the ethical use of consumer power"[24] which provides an online searchable database under the name Corporate Critic[25] or Ethiscore.[26] The Ethiscore is a weightable numerical rating designed as a quick guide to the ethical status of companies, or brands in a particular area, and is linked to a more detailed ethical assessment. "alonovo" is an online shopping portal that provides similar weightable ethical ratings termed the "Corporate Social Behavior Index".[27]
Related concepts[edit]
Conscientious consumption[edit]
The consumer rationalizes unnecessary and even unwanted consumption by saying that "it's for a good cause".[28] As a result, the consumer buys pink ribbons during National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, green products to support the environment, candy and popcorn from school children, greeting cards and gift wrap from charities, and many other, often unwanted objects. The consumer avoids considering whether the price offered is fair, whether a small cash donation would be more effective with far less work, or even whether selling the item is consistent with the ostensible mission, such as when sports teams sell candy.
Some of these efforts are based on concept brands: the consumer is buying an association with women's health or environmental concerns as much as she or he is buying a tangible product.[28]
Alternative giving[edit]
Main article: Alternative giving
In response to an increasing demand for ethical consumerism surrounding gift giving occasions, charities have promoted an alternative gift market, in which charitable contributions are made on behalf of the gift "recipient". The "recipient" receives a card explaining the selected gift, while the actual gift item (frequently agricultural supplies or domestic animals) is sent to a family in a poor community.[29]
Criticism[edit]
Critics argue that the ability to affect structural change is limited in ethical consumerism. Some cite the preponderance of niche markets as the actual effect of ethical consumerism,[30] while others argue that information is limited regarding the outcomes of a given purchase, preventing consumers from making informed ethical choices.[citation needed] Critics have also argued that the uneven distribution of wealth prevents consumerism, ethical or otherwise, from fulfilling its democratic potential.[31]
One study suggests that "Buying Green" serves as a license for unethical behavior  in their 2009 paper, "Do Green Products Make Us Better People?",[32] Nina Mazar, Chen-Bo Zhong state the following:
In line with the halo associated with green consumerism, people act more altruistically after mere exposure to green than conventional products. However, people act less altruistically and are more likely to cheat and steal after purchasing green products as opposed to conventional products. Together, the studies show that consumption is more tightly connected to our social and ethical behaviors in directions and domains other than previously thought.
In a 2010 The Guardian article, British environmental writer and activist George Monbiot argued that green consumers who do not articulate their values are part of "a catastrophic mistake" on the grounds that such consumerism "strengthens extrinsic values" (those that "concern status and self-advancement"), thereby "making future campaigns less likely to succeed".[33]
See also[edit]
Anti-consumerism
Critical consumerism
Carrying capacity
Cause marketing
Consumerism
Ethical banking
Ethical eating
Ethical investing
Frugality
Green brands
Intentional living
Socially responsible investing
Sustainable living
Vegetarianism
Veganism
Ecologism
References[edit]
^ *Giesler, Markus; Veresiu, Ela (2014). "Creating the Responsible Consumer: Moralistic Governance Regimes and Consumer Subjectivity". Journal of Consumer Research. 41 (October): 849867. doi:10.1086/677842.
^ "Why buy ethically". Ethical Consumer. Retrieved 2007-05-03.
^ "20th Birthday!". Ethicalconsumer.org. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "Is ESG Data Going Mainstream?". Blogs.hbr.org. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "Ethics is in the eye of the spender". Sustainability at LSE. Retrieved 2016-04-06.
^ "Our History". Ten Thousand Villages. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "Our Story". SERRV. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "Catholic Relief Services". Crs.org. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "Home - Lutheran World Relief | Working to end poverty, injustice and human suffering". Lwr.org. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "About Village Markets and Fair Trade". Villagemarkets.org. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ "'God's love is what they pass on': Fair trade is a mission for a Wittenberg University grad, students and faculty". The Lutheran. 2012-03-29. Retrieved 2013-08-18.
^ [1] Archived July 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Coop Marque". Coop. International Cooperative Alliance.
^ Jay, Kate (November 14, 2008). "First Carbon Neutral Zone Created in the United States". Reuters.
^ Auchmutey, Jim (January 26, 2009). "Trying on carbon-neutral trend". Atlanta Journal-Constitution. The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
^ "ICE cuts staff at Chicago Climate Exchange-sources". Reuters. 12 August 2010. Retrieved 3 February 2016.
^ Weitzman, Hal. "End of US carbon trading looms". Financial Times. Retrieved 3 February 2016.
^ Lavelle, Marianne (November 3, 2010). "A U.S. Cap-And-Trade Experiment to End". National Geographic. Retrieved 3 February 2016.
^ Rob Gray, Dave Owen and Carol Adams, "Accounting and accountability: changes and challenges in corporate social and environmental reporting"
^ Grande, Carlos (2007-02-20). "Ethical consumption makes mark on branding". FT.com. Retrieved 2011-12-18.
^ "entitled 'Ethical consumption makes mark on branding'". Financial Times. Retrieved 2007-05-03.
^ "Ethical Consumerism Report". Co-operative Bank. Retrieved 2010-09-03.
^ "Coop American: Responsible Shopping: About". Coopamerica.org. Retrieved 2011-12-18.
^ "Ethical Consumer Research Association: About". Corporatecritic.org. Retrieved 2011-12-18.
^ "Research & Ratings: About the Ethiscore". Corporate Critic. Retrieved 2011-12-18.
^ "Research and ratings". Ethiscore. Retrieved 2011-12-18.
^ Aalonovo Corporate Social Behavior Index Archived June 24, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
^ a b Gayle A. Sulik (2010). Pink Ribbon Blues: How Breast Cancer Culture Undermines Women's Health. USA: Oxford University Press. pp.111132. ISBN0-19-974045-3. OCLC535493589.
^ "Giving well is hard to do: so here's my seasonal guide". London: The Guardian. 2005-12-22. Retrieved 2007-05-03.
^ Devinney, Timothy. "Value vs. Values: The Myth of the Ethical Consumer". Policy Innovations. Policy Innovations. Retrieved 11 June 2015.
^ Gee, Tim (March 26, 2014). "When did fair trade become a consumerist concept?". New Statesman. New Statesman. Retrieved 11 June 2015.
^ Do Green Products Make Us Better People? (Psychological Science, April, 2010) Nina Mazar, Chen-Bo Zhong
^ Monbiot, George (12 October 2010). "It goes against our nature; but the left has to start asserting its own values". The Guardian. Retrieved 29 December 2010.
Further reading[edit]
Speth, James Gustave (2008). The Bridge at the End of the World: Capitalism, the Environment, and Crossing from Crisis to Sustainability. Caravan Books.
Bartley, Tim and colleagues (2015). Looking Behind the Label: Global Industries and the Conscientious Consumer. Indiana University Press.
v
t
e
Consumerism
the philosophy of and activism for consumer protection
Concepts
Consumerism
Consumer protection
Consumer
Anti-consumerism
Consumer capitalism
Ethical consumerism
Consumer privacy
Informed consumer
Consumer revolution
Activism
Consumer movement
Consumer activism
Consumer education
United Nations Guidelines for Consumer Protection
Consumer Bill of Rights
Consumer complaint
Fields of study
Euthenics
Home economics
Consumer math
Key players
List of consumer organizations
Consumer organization
Consumers' Association
Ellen Swallow Richards
Ralph Nader
Esther Peterson
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
v
t
e
Recycling
Materials
Aluminium
Asphalt
Concrete
Copper
Cotton
Energy
Ferrous metals
Glass
Gypsum
Paper
Plastic
Refrigerant
Scrap
Timber
Vegetable oil
Water
Products
Appliances
Automotive oil
Batteries
Bottles
PET bottles
Computers
Fluorescent lamps
Lumber
Mobile phones
Paint
Ships
Textiles
Tires
Vehicles
Apparatus
Bins
Blue bags
Blue boxes
Codes
Collection
Materials recovery facility
Waste sorting
Countries
Brazil
Canada
Ireland
Japan
The Netherlands
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Northern Ireland
United States
Concepts
Dematerialization
Downcycling
Eco-industrial park
Ecodesign
Extended producer responsibility
Freecycling
Industrial ecology
Industrial metabolism
Land recycling
Material flow analysis
Precycling
Product stewardship
Recursive recycling
Recycling (ecological)
Resource recovery
Repurposing
Reuse
Upcycling
Urban lumberjacking
Waste hierarchy
Waste minimisation
Waste picking
Zero waste
See also
Cogeneration
Composting
Container deposit legislation
Dumpster diving
Ethical consumerism
Freeganism
Simple living
Waste
Waste-to-energy
Waste collection
Waste legislation
Waste management
Waste management concepts
Environment portal
Category
by country
by material
by product
organizations
Index
Commons
v
t
e
Social and environmental accountability
Ethics and
principles
Aarhus Convention
Corporate accountability/ behaviour/ social responsibility
Ethical banking
Ethical code
Extended producer responsibility
Organizational ethics
Organizational justice
Principles for Responsible Investment
Social responsibility
Stakeholder theory
Sullivan principles
Transparency (behavioral
social)
UN Global Compact
Social
accounting
Double bottom line
Ethical Positioning Index
Higg Index
Impact assessment(environmental
equality
social)
ISO 26000
Genuine progress indicator
OHSAS 18001
Performance indicator
SA8000
Social return on investment
Whole-life cost
Environmental
accounting
Carbon accounting
Eco-Management and Audit Scheme
Emission inventory
Environmental full-cost accounting/ impact assessment/ management system/ profit-and-loss account
ISO 14000
ISO 14031:1999
Life-cycle assessment
Pollutant release and transfer register
Sustainability accounting/ measurement/ metrics and indices/ standards and certification/ supply chain
Toxics Release Inventory
Triple bottom line
Reporting
Global Reporting Initiative
GxP guidelines
Sustainability reporting
Auditing
Community-based monitoring
Environmental(certification)
Fair trade(certification)
ISO 19011
Related
Bangladesh Accord
Benefit corporation
Child labour
Community interest company
Conflict of interest
Disasters
Disinvestment
Eco-labeling
Environmental pricing reform
Environmental, social and corporate governance
Ethical consumerism
Euthenics
Health impact assessment
Market governance mechanism
Product certification
Public participation
Social enterprise
Socially responsible investing
Stakeholder(engagement)
Supply chain management
Environment portal
Category
Commons
Organizations
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1197
Cached time: 20161118033244
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.396 seconds
Real time usage: 0.463 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2118/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 122744/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1709/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 3/500
Lua time usage: 0.183/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.29 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
333.693
1 - -total
52.14%
173.987
1 - Template:Reflist
20.91%
69.769
20 - Template:Cite_web
19.41%
64.778
2 - Template:Citation_needed
18.58%
61.993
3 - Template:Fix
10.82%
36.120
4 - Template:Navbox
9.81%
32.734
2 - Template:Cite_journal
9.04%
30.166
3 - Template:Delink
8.36%
27.885
5 - Template:Category_handler
6.66%
22.218
6 - Template:Cite_news
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:441852-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118033244 and revision id 750161411
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ethical_consumerism&oldid=750161411"
Categories: Ethical consumerismConsumer boycottsMarket-based policy instrumentsProtectionismSustainabilityHidden categories: Webarchive template wayback linksAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from April 2016All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrasesArticles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from February 2016Articles with unsourced statements from November 2007