Fluegas
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Flue gas from London's Bankside Power Station, 1975
Flue gas is the gas exiting to the atmosphere via a flue, which is a pipe or channel for conveying exhaust gases from a fireplace, oven, furnace, boiler or steam generator. Quite often, the flue gas refers to the combustion exhaust gas produced at power plants. Its composition depends on what is being burned, but it will usually consist of mostly nitrogen (typically more than two-thirds) derived from the combustion of air, carbon dioxide (CO2), and water vapor as well as excess oxygen (also derived from the combustion air). It further contains a small percentage of a number of pollutants, such as particulate matter (like soot), carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and sulfur oxides.[1]
Scrubbing[edit]
At power plants, flue gas is often treated with a series of chemical processes and scrubbers, which remove pollutants. Electrostatic precipitators or fabric filters remove particulate matter and flue-gas desulfurization captures the sulfur dioxide produced by burning fossil fuels, particularly coal. Nitrogen oxides are treated either by modifications to the combustion process to prevent their formation, or by high temperature or catalytic reaction with ammonia or urea. In either case, the aim is to produce nitrogen gas, rather than nitrogen oxides. In the United States, there is a rapid deployment of technologies to remove mercury from flue gastypically by absorption on sorbents or by capture in inert solids as part of the flue-gas desulfurization product. Such scrubbing can lead to meaningful recovery of sulfur for further industrial use.[2]
Technologies based on regenerative capture by amines for the removal of CO2 from flue gas have been deployed to provide high purity CO2 gas to the food industry, and for enhanced oil recovery. They are now under active research as a method for CO2 capture for long-term storage as a means of greenhouse gas remediation, and have begun to be implemented in a limited way commercially (e.g. the Sleipner West field in the North Sea, operating since 1996).[3]
There are a number of proven technologies for removing pollutants emitted from power plants that are now available. There is also much ongoing research into technologies that will remove even more air pollutants.[4]
See also[edit]
Carbon capture and storage
Emission standard
Exhaust gas
Flue-gas emissions from fossil-fuel combustion
Flue gas stacks
Integrated gasification combined cycle (often referred to as IGCC)
Landfill gas
References[edit]
^ Fossil fuel combustion flue gases Milton R. Beychok, Encyclopedia of Earth, 2012.
^ Sulfur C. Michael Hogan, Encyclopedia of Earth, 2011.
^ Sleipner West
^ Conventional coal-fired power plant Scroll down to the section entitled "Control of air pollutant emissions".
v
t
e
Biosolids, waste and waste management
Major types
Agricultural wastewater
Biodegradable waste
Brown waste
Chemical waste
Construction waste
Demolition waste
Electronic waste
by country
Food waste
Green waste
Hazardous waste
Heat waste
Industrial waste
Litter
Marine debris
Biomedical waste
Mining waste
Municipal solid waste
Open defecation
Photodegradation
Post-consumer waste
Radioactive waste
Sewage
Toxic waste
Wastewater
Processes
Anaerobic digestion
Biodegradation
Composting
Garden waste dumping
Illegal dumping
Incineration
Landfill
Landfill mining
Mechanical biological treatment
Mechanical sorting
Open dump
Recycling
Resource recovery
Sewage treatment
Waste collection
Waste picking
Waste sorting
Waste trade
Waste treatment
Waste-to-energy
Countries
Armenia
Bangladesh
Brazil
Hong Kong
India
New Zealand
Russia
Switzerland
UK
USA
Agreements
Bamako Convention
Basel Convention
EU directives
batteries
landfills
RoHS
framework
incineration
waste water
WEEE
London Convention
Oslo Convention
OSPAR Convention
Other topics
Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future
Cleaner production
Downcycling
Eco-industrial park
Extended producer responsibility
High-level radioactive waste management
History of waste management
Landfill fire
Sewage regulation and administration
Upcycling
Waste hierarchy
Waste legislation
Waste minimisation
Zero waste
Environment portal
Category
Commons
Concepts
Index
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1976198-0!*!0!!*!4!* and timestamp 20161028151432 and revision id 746629196
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Flue_gas&oldid=746629196"
Categories: Air pollutionCombustionEnvironmental engineeringIndustrial gases