Geopark
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
World locator map for Geoparks included in the UNESCO Global Geoparks NetworkGGN.
A Geopark is a unified area that advances the protection and use of geological heritage in a sustainable way, and promotes the economic well-being of the people who live there.[1] There are Global Geoparks and National Geoparks.
Contents
1 Concepts
2 Global Network and UNESCO
2.1 Qualification
2.2 Members of the GGN
3 See also
4 References
5 External links
Concepts[edit]
A Global Geopark is a unified area with geological heritage of international significance.[2] Geoparks use that heritage to promote awareness of key issues facing society in the context of the dynamic planet we all live on. Many geoparks promote awareness of geological hazards, including volcanoes, earthquakes and tsunamis and many help prepare disaster mitigation strategies among local communities. Geoparks hold records of past climate change and are educators on current climate change as well as adopting a best practise approach to utilising renewable energy and employing the best standards of "green tourism".Tourism industry promotion in geopark, as a geographically sustainable and applicable tourism model, aims to sustain, or even enhance, the geographical character of a place.
Geoparks also inform about the sustainable use and need for natural resources, whether they are mined, quarried or harnessed from the surrounding environment while at the same time promoting respect for the environment and the integrity of the landscape. Geoparks are not a legislative designation though the key heritage sites within a geopark are often protected under local, regional or national legislation as appropriate.[2] The multidisciplinary nature of the concept of geopark and tourism promotion in geoparks differentiates itself from other models of sustainable tourism. In fact, sustainable tourism promotion within geopark actually encompasses many of the subdivisions of sustainable tourism including: geo-tourism (geo-site tourism: as a basic factor), community-based tourism and integrated rural tourism (as a vital needs), ecotourism, cultural heritage tourism, etc.
Global Network and UNESCO[edit]
The Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is supported by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Many national geoparks and other local geoparks projects also exist which are not included in the Global Geoparks Network.
The geoparks initiative was launched by UNESCO in response to the perceived need for an international initiative that recognizes sites representing an earth science interest.[3] Global Geoparks Network aims at enhancing the value of such sites while at the same time creating employment and promoting regional economic development.[3] The Global Geoparks Network works in synergy with UNESCO's World Heritage Centre and Man and the Biosphere (MAB) World Network of Biosphere Reserves.[3]
Qualification[edit]
The Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is a UNESCO activity established in 1998. According to UNESCO, for a geopark to apply to be included in the GGN, it needs to:
have a management plan designed to foster socio-economic development that is sustainable based on geotourism
demonstrate methods for conserving and enhancing geological heritage and provide means for teaching geoscientific disciplines and broader environmental issues
have joint proposals submitted by public authorities, local communities and private interests acting together, which demonstrate the best practices with respect to Earth heritage conservation and its integration into sustainable development strategies.[4]
Members of the GGN[edit]
See Members of the Global Geoparks Network.
See also[edit]
Geotourism
Global Geoparks Network
Asia Pacific Geoparks Network
European Geoparks Network
List of National Geoparks
References[edit]
^ Patrick J. Mc Keever and Nickolas Zouros (2005): Geoparks: Celebrating earth heritage, sustaining local communities. EPISODES, December 2005, pp. 274-278.
^ a b "What is a Global Geopark? | United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization". Unesco.org. Retrieved 2015-08-16.
^ a b c "AboutUNESCO's role in geopark initiative". Geopark Iskar Panega website. Geopark Iskar Panega. 2007.
^ 'April 2010 GEO4B/PM Advanced Level Examination - Advanced Information Booklet'
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Geoparks.
Global Geoparks Network
European Geoparks Network
Asia Pacific Geoparks Network
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
Authority control
GND: 4824467-3
NDL: 001130492
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:898161-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161106122648 and revision id 732945530
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Geopark&oldid=732945530"
Categories: GeoparksUNESCOProtected areasEarth sciencesGeographyGeologyGeography educationScience educationEnvironmental educationDisaster preparednessConservationHidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiers