GreenelectricityintheUnitedKingdom
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
A wind turbine at Greenpark, Reading, England, generating green electricity for approx 1000 homes.
There are a number of suppliers offering 'green' electricity in the United Kingdom. In theory these types of tariffs help to lower carbon emissions by increasing consumer demand for green electricity and encouraging more renewables to be built. Since OFGEM's 2014 regulations there are now set criteria defining what can be classified as a green source product.[1] As well as holding sufficient guarantee of origin certificates to cover the electricity sold to consumers, suppliers are also required to show additionality by contributing to wider environmental and low carbon funds.
Care needs to be taken in selecting a green energy supplier. A National Consumer Council report in December 2006 concluded that many green tariffs are not delivering the environmental benefits they claim to, and that consumers may not be making the positive contribution they think they are.[2]
Contents
1 Shades of green
1.1 Renewables Obligation
1.2 Climate Change Levy
1.3 Carbon offsetting
1.4 Reporting Requirements
2 Certification schemes
2.1 Ofgem's 2007-8 Proposals
2.2 The Green Energy Supply Certification Scheme
3 Current OFGEM regulation
4 Areas of controversy
4.1 Retirement of Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs)
4.2 Advertising Standards Authority Case
5 Suppliers currently offering green source products
6 See also
7 External links
7.1 News
8 References
Shades of green[edit]
Renewables Obligation[edit]
In the United Kingdom, suppliers are legally obliged to purchase a proportion of their electricity from renewable sources under the Renewables Obligation and there is a danger that energy suppliers may sell such green electricity under a premium 'green energy' tariff, rather than sourcing additional green electricity supplies.[3] In addition to selling the green electricity to the consumer, it is also possible for the supplier to sell the associated Renewables Obligation Certificates to another supplier who has failed to meet their quota, rather than 'retiring' the certificate from the marketplace.[4]
On several occasions in May 2016, Britain burned no coal for electricity for the first time since 1882.[5][6]
Climate Change Levy[edit]
Non-domestic consumers can avoid paying the Climate Change Levy by acquiring Levy Exemption Certificates from renewable energy suppliers. Since these are not required by domestic consumers, it is possible for the supplier to sell the certificates to the non-domestic sector, as well as selling the renewables obligation certificate and the electricity.[4]
Carbon offsetting[edit]
See also: carbon offset
Prior to the OFGEM green supply regulations, some green energy tariffs involved carbon offsetting, rather than purchasing or investing in renewable energy,[7][8] a practice that does not meet with universal approval. George Monbiot, an English environmentalist and writer, has compared carbon offsets to the practice of purchasing indulgences during the Middle Ages, whereby people believed they could purchase forgiveness for their sins (instead of actually repenting and not sinning anymore). Monbiot also says that carbon offsets are an excuse for business as usual with regard to pollution.[9]
Reporting Requirements[edit]
In June 2008, Defra announced that with effect from the current financial year (2008/9), Green Electricity is to be treated the same as average grid electricity for CO2 reporting purposes. Previously, it was treated as if there were no CO2 emissions associated with it.
Explaining the change, the Minister responsible (Hilary Benn) said[10] "I want to make sure that the green tariff market, which has grown rapidly over recent years, is clear for consumers and businesses about the precise benefit their tariff brings. Many energy suppliers offer green tariffs to businesses and domestic customers who want to make a contribution to environmental projects or help tackle climate change, but these differ in what they deliver." He added "It is increasingly difficult to demonstrate that buying a renewable electricity tariff is offering additional carbon emissions reductions compared with what suppliers are required to source to meet the Renewables Obligation. I have therefore decided that we will change the voluntary corporate reporting guidelines to bring them into line with current best practice and provide coherent carbon accounting. This will mean that for the reporting year 2008-9, best practice is expected to be for businesses to use a grid average rate - average rate of carbon emissions associated with electricity transmitted on the national grid - unless their supplier can prove the carbon benefits are additional." This does not affect green electricity generated on site (e.g. from photovoltaics or a micro-wind turbine), which can continue to be reported as producing zero emissions.
Certification schemes[edit]
In 1999 the Future Energy national certification scheme for green electricity was launched, however it was closed in 2002, apparently because too few suppliers were prepared to accept the proposed revised requirements.[11]
In the absence of a replacement national scheme in the UK, the international Eugene Network, whose main purpose was to give accreditation to national green energy schemes, supported Ecotricity[12] and indicates that Good Energy would be ready for accreditation should a Eugene Standard compliant scheme be introduced in the UK.[13] The Eugene standard was discontinued in February 2009,[14] leaving no internationally recognised means of comparing green electricity.
Ofgem's 2007-8 Proposals[edit]
In an attempt to end some of the premium priced offerings by suppliers which were doing no more than repackaging electricity that they had to buy under the Renewables Obligation, the UK Government's Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem proposed a voluntary scheme for independently verified energy ratings[15] for electricity suppliers. Initially this was intended to include a detailed analysis of the carbon content of the supply, but some critics felt that this lacked sufficient emphasis on additionality, and the actual energy used by consumers from the grid was always a mix of brown and green sources.
After running a series of workshops in early 2008, their proposals turned away from a focus on the source of electricity (and its associated carbon dioxide emissions), to look instead at whether an environmental benefit is demonstrated. Essentially, Ofgem suggest that this can only be done if the supplier invests part of payment received into one of the following activities:[16]
installation of energy efficiency technologies (outside of the Carbon Emission Reduction Target - CERT programme);
other consumer behaviour measures, such as active demand management or voluntary smart metering;
support for renewable heat installations;
additional investment in smaller-scale (e.g. community based) renewable electricity projects - a limit of 1MW has been suggested for wind farms - or in other low carbon sources including CHP and nuclear;
retirement of EU allowances under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS);
purchase of carbon offsets in line with Defras Quality Assurance Scheme for Carbon Offsetting, typically offsets from developing countries under the Clean Development Mechanism;
research and development into emerging renewable technologies; or
contribution to an environmental charity.
The initial draft of the guidelines would have excluded most of the products currently available on the UK market, including offerings from renewable energy specialists Good Energy and Ecotricity.
The Green Energy Supply Certification Scheme[edit]
After consultation, Ofgem introduced modified Guidelines in February 2009.[17] These placed a greater emphasis on the matching principle, requiring that all electricity sold under the Scheme had to be matched by supplies from renewable sources (and excluding other low-carbon sources such as CHP or nuclear). The additionality criteria were simplified slightly to comprise:[18]
carbon offsets accredited either under the UK Government's Quality Assurance Scheme (QAS) or under the Gold Standard
green energy schemes, mainly those that donate money to charities or to trust funds established to invest in new renewable projects  generally at a community level, and required to be independent of the suppliers
energy efficiency schemes, making savings above those from CERT including savings in customers' premises through lower energy use
unspecified other measures, producing equivalent carbon savings
Certified tariffs are subject to an annual audit, to ensure that the matching and additionality criteria have been met. Consumers must also be given information on the suppliers overall fuel mix at the point of sale. Although aimed mainly at domestic consumers, the scheme can also certify tariffs aimed at small businesses with an annual energy consumption below 50,000kWh.
The Scheme is controlled by an independent Panel chaired by Solitaire Townsend, and the National Energy Foundation were appointed as the secretariat.
The Scheme was launched in February 2010, with the six big UK energy suppliers as members as well as Good Energy. Ecotricity elected not to join the scheme citing concerns about the additionality rules.[19] All suppliers offer domestic tariffs, but only some have offered small business tariffs under the scheme.
Current OFGEM regulation[edit]
In response to concerns about the lack of regulation in the market for green electricity tariffs and in order to protect consumers, OFGEM has consulted and enacted changes to the green tariff market in the UK.[1] Whereas previously the green tariff products were not subject to specific regulations, all retailers must now prove the green credentials of their products to OFGEM. The regulations have three components:[20]
Electricity source - retailers need to hold sufficient Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin Certificates to match the quantity of electricity sold. Retailers are required to submit proof of this to the regulator.
Additionality - retailers also need to invest additional funds into other environmental projects.
Transparency - retailers are required to inform consumers of how their tariffs benefit the environment.
Areas of controversy[edit]
There have been several areas of controversy regarding green electricity sales in the UK. These have been related to both the concept as a whole, which has been subject to criticism, but have usually manifested as disputes between the two leading green electricity companies.
Retirement of Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs)[edit]
In 2009 the founder of Ecotricity, Dale Vince, criticised Good Energy for their failure to retire a sufficient quantity of ROCs.[21][22] Good Energy had previously promised to retire 5% of its ROCs, but Vince claimed they had consistently retired fewer ROCs than promised. He backed this up with evidence from OFGEM. It appears that after this dispute Good Energy did increase the number of ROCs it retired, but now seems to have ceased to do this entirely.
Advertising Standards Authority Case[edit]
In 2016 Ecotricity claimed in an advertisement that it was the greenest energy supplier. This claim was disputed by Tesla Motors and subsequently thrown out.[23] The judgement faced criticism from Good Energy, with its managing director David Brooks saying The ASA appears to have based its decision purely on data provided by Ecotricity without considering whether that data represents an objective view. Obviously, the criteria Ecotricity has chosen to measure itself against other companies has been selected to suit Ecotricity. We dont think the ASA has considered what it calls suitable comparative data before reaching its conclusions." [24]
Suppliers currently offering green source products[edit]
Good Energy
Ecotricity
LoCo2
Marks and Spencer (operated by SSE)
Green Energy UK
OVO Energy
Green Star Energy
Bulb energy
See also[edit]
Energy portal
Energy use and conservation in the United Kingdom
Green energy
Energy conservation
Microgeneration
Renewable energy
Renewable heat
External links[edit]
National Consumer Council: Reality or rhetoric? Green tariffs
Association for Environment Conscious Building: The Green Electricity Illusion
Energy Saving Trust
CO2 calculator identifying green tariffs from the National Energy Foundation
Fuel Mix electricity source table
Ethical Consumer Magazine's electricity supplier list
Justin Rowlatt's (Newsnight's ethical man) investigations into green electricity including Professor Tim Jackson's analysis of macro economic issues
News[edit]
21 November 2007, Ofgem: New energy ratings to help cut through green customer confusion
References[edit]
^ a b "Ofgem proposes improvements to green tariffs to improve protection for consumers". www.ofgem.gov.uk. Retrieved 2016-07-21.
^ "Reality or rhetoric? Green tariffs for domestic consumers" (PDF). The National Consumer Council. Dec 2006.
^ Green Electricity... Are you being conned? The Ecologist, published 2005-06-01, accessed 2007-06-07
^ a b Why Friends of the Earth no longer produces a green electricity tariff league table, Friends of the Earth, published July 2005, accessed 2007-06-13
^ "Britain passes historic milestone with first days of coal-free power". Financial Times. Retrieved 19 June 2016.
^ "Britain gets no power from coal for 'first time on record'". The Telegraph. 10 May 2016. Retrieved 19 June 2016.
^ "Reality or rhetoric? Green tariffs for domestic consumers" (PDF). The National Consumer Council, UK. Dec 2006.
^ GRINNE GILMORE (January 6, 2007). "Grey areas with green energy". London: The Times.
^ "The trade in carbon offsets is an excuse for business as usual" by George Monbiot, The Guardian, October 18, 2006. A reprint of the article may be accessed at on Monbiot's website. Also see "Carbon Offset Business Takes Root" by Martin Kaste, NPR, Nov. 28, 2006.
^ Defra Press Release: Green Tariffs: Check what yours delivers 16 June 2008
^ Consumers left in the dark over green electricity, Friends of the Earth, published 2002-11-06, accessed 2007-06-08
^ Ecotricity - committed to new renewable energy Eugene, accessed 2007-06-07
^ Case Study: UK market lacks information Eugene, accessed 2007-06-07
^ Eugene Standard - Letter from Board about dismantling, Eugene, accessed 2010-02-26
^ New energy ratings to help cut through green customer confusion (press release), accessed 2007-11-07
^ http://www.ofgem.gov.uk/Sustainability/Environmnt/Policy/Documents1/Green%20supply%20guidelines%20-%20proposals%20July%2008.pdf Ofgem: Green supply guidelines - proposals July 2008
^ Final Green Supply Guidelines, Open letter dated 4 February 2009
^ Green Energy Supply Certification Scheme website accessed 16 December 2010
^ Ecotricity Press Release, 'New green energy guidelines from Ofgem are feel good but not do good says Ecotricity'
^ "Protecting consumers in the green and renewable offers market - final proposals" (PDF). OFGEM.
^ BusinessGreen.com, From; Network, part of the Guardian Environment (2009-05-14). "Good Energy accused of misleading green tariff customers". the Guardian. Retrieved 2016-07-21.
^ "Utility Week  Good Energy and Ecotricity clash over green claims". utilityweek.co.uk. Retrieved 2016-07-21.
^ "ASA Ruling on Ecotricity Group Ltd - Advertising Standards Authority". www.asa.org.uk. Retrieved 2016-07-21.
^ "Good Energy and Ecotricity in new row over who's greenest". 2016-04-07. Retrieved 2016-07-21.
v
t
e
Energy in the United Kingdom
Companies
Coal
Anglo American
Asia Energy
BHP Billiton
ENRC
Glencore
Rio Tinto
UK Coal
Oil and gas
Integrated
BG Group
BP
Royal Dutch Shell
Exploration and
production
Afren
BHP Billiton
Cairn Energy
Centrica
Dana Petroleum
Desire Petroleum
Emerald Energy
EnQuest
Essar Energy
Falkland Oil and Gas
Hardy Oil and Gas
JKX Oil & Gas
Melrose Resources
Ophir Energy
Perenco
Premier Oil
Regal Petroleum
Rockhopper Exploration
SOCO International
Star Energy
Tullow Oil
Supply
Greenergy
Murco Petroleum
Support
Abbot Group
AMEC
Ensco
Expro
Hunting
Petrofac
Qserv
Score Group
Weir Group
WesternGeco1
Wood Group
Utilities
Generation and
supply
Integrated
Centrica
EDF Energy1
E.ON UK1
RWE npower1
Scottish Power1
SSE
Generation
Drax Group
Falck Renewables
Horizon Nuclear Power1
International Power
Vattenfall United Kingdom1
Vedanta Resources
Supply
The Co-operative Energy
Ecotricity
ESB International
Extra Energy
Firmus Energy
First Utility
Good Energy
Green Energy
LoCO2 Energy
Opus Energy
Ovo Energy
Phoenix Natural Gas
Telecom Plus
Distribution
Electricity
Electricity North West1
Northern Powergrid1
SP Energy Networks1
SSE Power Distribution
UK Power Networks1
Western Power Distribution1
Gas
Firmus Energy
National Grid
Northern Gas Networks
Phoenix Natural Gas
SGN
Wales & West Utilities1
Transmission
Electricity
National Grid2
Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission
SP Energy Networks1
Gas
National Grid
Other
Aggreko
APX Group
Aquamarine Power
Ecogen
EnServe
Geothermal Engineering
Hi-Gen Power
Mark Group
Wavegen
Companies with headquarters and/or registered office in the UK but no applicable energy operations within the country shown in italics 1Ultimate parent company is not UK-based 2Integrated in the United States, no generation or supply activities in the UK
Energy sources
Coal
Coal Authority
Coal-fired power stations
Coal mines
Coal mining regions
Confederation of UK Coal Producers
Greenhouse gas emissions
History (Miners' strike
National Coal Board)
Open-pit coal mining
Electricity
Association of Electricity Producers
BritNed
EastWest Interconnector
Energy switching services
Economy 7
Economy 10
Electricity billing
Green electricity
Grid Trade Master Agreement
HVDC Cross-Channel
HVDC Moyle
HVDC NorwayUK
Isle of Man to England Interconnector
National Grid
Control
Reserve Service
New Electricity Trading Arrangements
Power stations
Timeline of the electricity supply industry
Nuclear
Advanced gas-cooled reactor
FrancoBritish Nuclear Forum
Magnox
National Nuclear Laboratory
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority
Nuclear Liabilities Fund
Nuclear power stations
Office for Nuclear Regulation
Sellafield
United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
Oil and gas
BBL Pipeline
Dash for Gas
Forties pipeline system
Fuel protests
Gas infrastructure
Greenhouse gas emissions
Hydrocarbon oil duty
Oil and Gas Authority
National Transmission System
Natural gas fields
Natural gas-fired power stations
North Sea oil
Oil & Gas UK
Oil fields
Oil-fired power stations
Oil infrastructure
Oil refineries
Petroleum revenue tax
Renewables
Biofuels
Biodiesel
Biofuel power stations
National Non-Food Crops Centre
Renewable Fuels Agency
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation
Geothermal
Geothermal power stations
Hydroelectricity
Hydroelectric power stations
Severn Barrage
Wave farms
Solar power
Wind power
List of offshore wind farms
List of onshore wind farms
North Sea Offshore Grid
Wind power in Scotland
Government and regulation
Organisations
Carbon Trust
Cenex
Committee on Climate Change
Department of Energy and Climate Change
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Energy Saving Trust
Environment Agency
Office of Gas and Electricity Markets
Legislation and
initiatives
Carbon Emission Reduction Target
Climate Change Act 2008
Climate Change Agreement
Climate Change Levy
Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme
Display Energy Certificate
Energy Act 2013
Energy Performance Certificate
Fossil Fuel Levy
Low Carbon Building Programme
National Industrial Symbiosis Programme
Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation
Planning Act 2008
Renewable Heat Incentive
Renewables Obligation
United Kingdom Climate Change Programme
Non-governmental organisations
Charities and
pressure groups
Ashden Award
BioRegional
Campaign against Climate Change
Centre for Alternative Technology
National Energy Action
Stop Climate Chaos
Tyndall Centre
Industry bodies
Combined Heat and Power Association
Energy Institute
Energy Networks Association
Energy Retail Association
Green Power Forum
RenewableUK
Utilities Intermediaries Association
Research
Centre for Renewable Energy Systems Technology
Energy Technologies Institute
Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research
NaREC
Oil Depletion Analysis Centre
UK Energy Research Centre
Energy conservation
Association for the Conservation of Energy
British Energy Efficiency Federation
Close the Door campaign
Code for Sustainable Homes
Double Glazing & Conservatory Ombudsman Scheme
EcoHomes
Energy efficiency in British housing
Energy Saving Trust (Energy Saving Trust Recommended)
Greenhouse gas emissions
HTB
National Home Energy Rating
Category
Commons
v
t
e
Renewable energy by country
Africa
Ethiopia
Kenya
Morocco
Seychelles
Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
China
India
Kazakhstan
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Taiwan
Thailand
Europe
European Union (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom)
Albania
Iceland
Norway
Russia
North America
Canada
Costa Rica
Honduras
Mexico
United States
Oceania
Australia
New Zealand
Tuvalu
South America
Argentina
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Category
Portals:
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1242
Cached time: 20161120113551
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.224 seconds
Real time usage: 0.266 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1705/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 222333/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 21049/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.084/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 3.54 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
173.380
1 - -total
36.93%
64.029
1 - Template:Energy_in_the_United_Kingdom
35.35%
61.292
1 - Template:Navbox_with_collapsible_groups
26.05%
45.170
11 - Template:Navbox
25.02%
43.388
8 - Template:Cite_web
9.89%
17.140
1 - Template:See_also
5.91%
10.253
6 - Template:Icon
5.48%
9.509
3 - Template:Cite_news
5.37%
9.309
1 - Template:Renewable_energy_by_country
3.70%
6.421
1 - Template:Portal
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:11749089-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120113550 and revision id 733818909
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Green_electricity_in_the_United_Kingdom&oldid=733818909"
Categories: Renewable energy in the United KingdomElectric power in the United Kingdom