GreenhouseSolutionswithSustainableEnergy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy
Author
Mark Diesendorf
Subject
Sustainability
Publisher
University of New South Wales Press
Publication date
2007
ISBN
978-0-86840-973-3
OCLC
154686158
The wind, Sun, and biomass are three renewable energy sources
Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy is a 2007 book by Australian academic Mark Diesendorf. The book puts forward a set of policies and strategies for implementing the most promising clean energy technologies by all spheres of government, business and community organisations. Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy suggests that a mix of efficient energy use, renewable energy sources and natural gas (as a transitional fuel) offers a clean and feasible energy future for Australia.[1]
Contents
1 Structure and themes
2 Wind power variability
3 Quotes
4 Critical reception
5 Author
6 See also
7 References
8 Bibliography
Structure and themes[edit]
The book is a comprehensive guide to sustainable energy systems[2] and is structured in three sections:
Introduction to the basic concepts and latest scientific evidence regarding global warming.
Assessment of energy technologies, including coal, nuclear and more sustainable alternatives.
Discussion of policies and strategies needed to overcome the non-technical barriers to renewable energies and energy efficiency.[3]
Diesendorf argues that:
Ecologically sustainable energy technologies based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and natural gas are commercially available today, and that their implementation could halve Australias greenhouse gas emissions within a few decades.
To implement these technologies, new policies must be developed and implemented by all three levels of government.
The main barriers are neither technical nor economic, but rather our social institutions and the political power of the big greenhouse gas emitting industries: coal, oil, aluminium, cement and motor vehicles.[1]
Wind power variability[edit]
Early in his career, Mark Diesendorf was a principal research scientist with CSIRO where he was involved in early research on integrating wind power into electricity grids. This issue is discussed in some detail in Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy.
Diesendorf explains that large-scale wind power is not "intermittent", because it does not start up or switch off instantaneously. In practice, the variations in thousands of wind turbines, spread out over several different sites and wind regimes, are smoothed. As the distance between sites increases, the correlation between wind speeds measured at those sites, decreases. This has been confirmed recently by studies conducted by Graham Sinden from Oxford University:[4]
[Graham Sinden] analysed over 30 years of hourly wind speed data from 66 sites spread out over the United Kingdom. He found that the correlation coefficient of wind power fell from 0.6 at 200 km to 0.25 at 600 km separation (a perfect correlation would have a coefficient equal to 1.0.) There were no hours in the data set where wind speed was below the cut-in wind speed of a modern wind turbine throughout the United Kingdom, and low wind speed events affecting more than 90 per cent of the United Kingdom had an average recurrent rate of only one hour per year.[4]
Diesendorf goes on to say that every conventional power station breaks down unexpectedly from time to time, causing an immediate loss of all its power. That is true intermittency, according to Diesendorf, and it is a particular type of variability that switches between full power and no power. Once a conventional power station has broken down, it may be offline for weeks, much longer than windless periods.[5]
Quotes[edit]
"The enhanced greenhouse effect is arguably the most dangerous environmental problem and the most difficult political issue to be faced by the world in the 21st century." (p.1)
"The recent push for a revival of nuclear energy has been based on its claimed reduction in CO2 emissions where it substitutes for coal-fired power stations. In reality, only reactor operation is CO2-free. All other stages of the nuclear fuel chain -- mining, milling, fuel fabrication, enrichment, reactor construction, decommissioning, and waste management -- use fossil fuels and hence emit CO2..." (p.252)
"Global wind-power capacity continues to expand and, apart from the blip in 2006, its costs continue to decline steadily. Wind power is one of the few energy supply technologies that are ready for wide dissemination today, unlike coal with CO2 capture and sequestration and unlike nuclear power. Wind can deliver deep cuts in CO2, while providing a hedge against fluctuating fossil fuel prices and reducing energy import dependence." (p.126)
Critical reception[edit]
Dick Nichols, in Green Left, states that Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy brings together much useful material about global warming and possible solutions:
Diesendorf's book concentrates into one volume a succinct analysis of global warming, a rebuttal of climate change scepticism, a thorough summary of the state of development of each renewable energy technology, a masterly demolition of false solutions to greenhouse (like carbon sequestration and nuclear power) and a presentation of strategies and policies for uprooting carbon-intensive power production in Australia. Add in chapters on saving energy and transport and urban redesign and Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy illuminates the reader about all the main features of the many-sided debate on how to make sustainable energy production the heart of the attack on climate change.[6]
Nichols suggests that if theres one serious shortcoming in Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy its "a failure to consistently trace what rate of implementation of energy efficiency and uptake of renewable energy sources is necessary to confront the greenhouse emergency".
Patrick O'Neill, in Chain Reaction, suggests that Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy is a comprehensive guide to sustainable energy systems, and that the book is "simply a joy to read". O'Neill explains that whilst an immense amount of technical and scientific detail is presented, the language is simple and the book is well laid out. It also covers often ignored areas of the sustainable energy discussion such as population issues, morality, social justice and equity. In conclusion, O'Neill states that the book is a "wonderfully energising piece of sedition", which calls for a "coordinated national strategy for non-violent action".[2]
George Wilkenfield, in Australian Review of Public Affairs, is more critical and suggests the book feels "strangely anachronistic", partly because it treats climate change as an issue that can be resolved through grassroots activism or by the opposition of protest movements to unjust regimes. Wilkenfield explains that "this rather misses the point that the continuing rise in global greenhouse gas emissions is not a byproduct of injustice or repression but of economic freedom in the West and the unrelenting economic growth by which repressive regimes such as Chinas buy legitimacy. In general, very few people want to be freed from consumptionmost want the freedom to consume even more". Wilkenfield goes on to say that Diesendorf misses some of the dynamics of consumption: energy use gives people comfort, speed, privacy and convenience. Many people actually enjoy driving and like their cars, and would continue to use them as long as they could afford to, even if public transport were available.[7]
Nevertheless, in the end, Wilkenfield concedes that Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy is very suitable as a textbook, or as a handbook for activists, journalists or the more committed reader who is not afraid of numbers.[7]
Author[edit]
Mark Diesendorf teaches and researches ecologically sustainable development and greenhouse solutions at the Institute of Environmental Studies at the University of NSW. Previously he has been a Principle Research Scientist at CSIRO, Professor of Environmental Science at UTS and Vice-President of the Australia New Zealand Society for Ecological Economics.[8]
See also[edit]
Environment portal
Energy portal
Australia portal
Anti-nuclear movement in Australia
Clean Tech Nation
Effects of global warming on Australia
List of Australian environmental books
Reaction Time (book)
Renewable energy commercialization in Australia
Solar power in Australia
Sustainable development
Wind power in Australia
References[edit]
^ a b UNSW Press. : Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy
^ a b Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy: Review by Patrick O'Neill Chain Reaction 100, August 2007.
^ Scientific approach to an emotional  and political  issue ECOS, JuneJuly 2007, p.31.
^ a b Diesendorf, Mark (2007). Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy, p. 119.
^ Diesendorf, Mark (2007). Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy, p. 118.
^ Dick Nichols, How can sustainable energy solve greenhouse? Green Left, 5 April 2008.
^ a b George Wilkenfield, Cutting greenhouse emissionsWhat would we do if we really meant it? Australian Review of Public Affairs, August 2007.
^ Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy -- Free symposium
Bibliography[edit]
Diesendorf, Mark (2007). Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy, UNSW Press, 432 pages, ISBN 978-0-86840-973-3
v
t
e
Anti-nuclear movement in Australia
Organisations
and groups
The Australia Institute
Australian Conservation Foundation
Australian Greens
Australian Labor Party
Campaign Against Nuclear Energy
Conservation Council of South Australia
Friends of the Earth Australia
Greenpeace Australia Pacific
Kupa Piti Kungka Tjuta
Medical Association for Prevention of War
Mineral Policy Institute
Nuclear Disarmament Party
Peace Organisation of Australia
The Wilderness Society
People
Dorothy Auchterlonie Green
David Bradbury (film maker)
Bob Brown
Eileen Kampakuta Brown
Kevin Buzzacott
Helen Caldicott
Moss Cass
Ian Cohen
Michael Denborough
Mark Diesendorf
Jim Falk
Peter Garrett
Jim Green (activist)
Margaret Holmes
Jacqui Katona
Sandra Kanck
Ian Lowe
Scott Ludlam
Yvonne Margarula
Dee Margetts
Jillian Marsh
Jean Melzer
Kerry Nettle
Tilman Ruff
Nancy Shelley
Jo Vallentine
Patrick White
Stuart White
Eileen Wani Wingfield
Books
Britain, Australia and the Bomb
Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy
Maralinga: Australia's Nuclear Waste Cover-up
Reaction Time: Climate Change and the Nuclear Option
See also
Australian Uranium Association
Clean Energy Future Group
List of inquiries into uranium mining in Australia
Lists of nuclear disasters and radioactive incidents
Nuclear power in Australia
Nuclear weapons tests in Australia
Olympic Dam, South Australia
Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry
Renewable energy commercialization
Renewable energy in Australia
Say Yes demonstrations
Uranium mining in Australia
Uranium mining in Kakadu National Park
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1238
Cached time: 20161120094829
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.096 seconds
Real time usage: 0.130 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 861/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 20400/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1160/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.029/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.56 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
94.308
1 - -total
67.80%
63.937
1 - Template:Infobox_book
53.98%
50.904
1 - Template:Infobox
10.98%
10.357
1 - Template:Portal
7.53%
7.102
1 - Template:Australian_anti-nuclear
6.95%
6.556
1 - Template:Reflist
5.88%
5.544
1 - Template:Navbox
4.49%
4.238
1 - Template:ISBNT
3.67%
3.457
1 - Template:Abbr
2.08%
1.958
3 - Template:Main_other
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:11568347-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120094829 and revision id 711846878
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Greenhouse_Solutions_with_Sustainable_Energy&oldid=711846878"
Categories: 2007 books2007 in the environmentAustralian non-fiction booksSustainability booksBooks about energy issuesClimate change booksHidden categories: Pages using ISBN magic links