Greenpolitics
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Part of a series on
Green politics
Core topics
Green politics
Green party
List of topics
Four Pillars
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Grassroots democracy
Nonviolence
Perspectives
Bright green environmentalism
Deep ecology
Eco-capitalism
Eco-feminism
Eco-nationalism
Eco-socialism
Green anarchism
Green conservatism
Green left
Green liberalism
Green libertarianism
Green syndicalism
Social ecology
Green Zionism
Organizations
Asia Pacific Greens Federation
European Green Party
Federation of Green Parties of Africa
Federation of the Green Parties of the Americas
Federation of Young European Greens
Global Greens
Global Young Greens
Related topics
Anti-environmentalism
Climate change politics
Conservation movement
Eco-terrorism
Ecocentrism
Ecological modernization
Environmental issues
Environmental justice
Environmental movement
Environmentalism
Politics portal
Environment portal
v
t
e
Green politics (also known as ecopolitics[1]) is a political ideology that aims to create an ecologically sustainable society rooted in environmentalism, nonviolence, social justice, and grassroots democracy.[2] It began taking shape in the western world in the 1970s; since then Green parties have developed and established themselves in many countries around the globe, and have achieved some electoral success.
The political term Green was used initially in relation to die Grnen (German for "the Greens"),[3][4] a Green party formed in the late 1970s.[5] The term political ecology is sometimes used in academic circles, but in the latter has come to represent an interdisciplinary field of study; the academic discipline offers wide-ranging studies integrating ecological social sciences with political economy[6] in topics such as degradation and marginalization, environmental conflict, conservation and control, and environmental identities and social movements.[7]
Supporters of green politics share many ideas with the ecology, conservation, environmentalism, feminism, and peace movements. In addition to democracy and ecological issues, green politics is concerned with civil liberties, social justice, nonviolence, sometimes variants of localism[8] and tends to support social progressivism. The party's platform is largely considered left in the political spectrum.
The Green ideology has connections with various other ecocentric political ideologies, including ecosocialism, ecoanarchism, and ecofeminism, but to what extent these can be seen as forms of Green politics is a matter of debate.[9]
As the left-wing 'Green' (i.e. capital 'G') political philosophy developed, there also came into separate existence unrelated and polar opposite movements on the right that include ecological components such as green conservatism and eco-capitalism.
Contents
1 History
1.1 Influences
1.1.1 Early development
1.1.2 Further developments
2 Core tenets
2.1 Ecology
2.2 Economics
2.3 Participatory democracy
2.4 Other issues
3 Organization
3.1 Local movements
3.2 Global organization
3.2.1 Global Green meetings
3.3 Green federations
4 Currents
5 See also
6 Notes
6.1 References
7 Further reading
8 External links
History[edit]
Influences[edit]
Adherents to green politics tend to consider it to be part of a 'higher' worldview and not simply a political ideology. Green politics draws its ethical stance from a variety of sources, from the values of indigenous peoples, to the ethics of Gandhi, Spinoza and Uexkll. These people influenced green thought in their advocacy of long-term "seventh generation" foresight, and on the personal responsibility of every individual to make moral choices.
Of course, unease about adverse consequences of human actions on nature predates the modern concept of environmentalism". Social commentators as far apart as ancient Rome and China complained of air, water and noise pollution.[10]
The philosophical roots of environmentalism can be traced back to enlightenment thinkers such as Rousseau in France and, later, the author and naturalist Thoreau in America. Organised environmentalism began in late 19th Century Europe and the United States as a reaction to the Industrial Revolution with its emphasis on unbridled economic expansion.[11]
Green politics first began as conservation and preservation movements, such as the Sierra Club, founded in San Francisco in 1892.
Left-green platforms of the form that make up the green parties today draw terminology from the science of ecology, and policy from environmentalism, deep ecology, feminism, pacifism, anarchism, libertarian socialism, social democracy, eco-socialism, and/or social ecology. In the 1970s, as these movements grew in influence, green politics arose as a new philosophy which synthesized their goals. The Green Party political movement is not to be confused with the unrelated fact that in some far-right and fascist parties, nationalism has on occasion been tied into a sort of green politics which promotes environmentalism as a form of pride in the "motherland"[12][13] according to a minority of authors.[14]
Early development[edit]
German Green Party co-founder, Petra Kelly, with former German cabinet member, Otto Schily, at press conference in 1983.
In June 1970 in the Netherlands a group called Kabouters won 5 of the 45 seats on the Amsterdam Gemeenteraad (City Council), as well as two seats each on councils in The Hague and Leeuwarden and one seat apiece in Arnhem, Alkmaar and Leiden. The Kabouters were an outgrowth of Provos environmental White Plans and they proposed Groene Plannen (Green Plans).[15]
The first political party to be created with its basis in environmental issues was the United Tasmania Group, founded in Australia in March 1972 to fight against deforestation and the creation of a dam that would damage Lake Pedder; whilst it only gained three percent in state elections, it had, according to Derek Wall, "inspired the creation of Green parties all over the world."[16] In May 1972, a meeting at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, launched the Values Party, the world's first countrywide green party to contest Parliamentary seats nationally.[17] A year later in 1973, Europe's first green party, the UK's Ecology Party, came into existence.
The German Green Party was not the first Green Party in Europe to have members elected nationally but the impression was created that they had been, because they attracted the most media attention: The German Greens, contended in their first national election in 1980. They started as a provisional coalition of civic groups and political campaigns which, together, felt their interests were not expressed by the conventional parties. After contesting the 1979 Euro elections they held a conference which identified Four Pillars of the Green Party which all groups in the original alliance could agree as the basis of a common Party platform: welding these groups together as a single Party. This statement of principles has since been utilised by many Green Parties around the world. It was this party that first coined the term "Green" ("Grn" in German) and adopted the sunflower symbol. In the 1983 federal election, the Greens won 27 seats in the Bundestag.
Further developments[edit]
The first Canadian foray into green politics took place in the Maritimes when 11 independent candidates (including one in Montreal and one in Toronto) ran in the 1980 federal election under the banner of the Small Party. Inspired by Schumacher's Small is Beautiful, the Small Party candidates ran for the expressed purpose of putting forward an anti-nuclear platform in that election. It was not registered as an official party, but some participants in that effort went on to form the Green Party of Canada in 1983 (the Ontario Greens and British Columbia Greens were also formed that year). Current Green Party of Canada leader Elizabeth May was the instigator and one of the candidates and she was eventually elected in 2011 Canadian federal election.[18]
In Finland, in 1995, the Green League became the first European Green Party to form part of a state-level Cabinet. The German Greens followed, forming a government with the Social Democratic Party of Germany (the "Red-Green Alliance") from 1998 to 2005. In 2001, they reached an agreement to end reliance on nuclear power in Germany, and agreed to remain in coalition and support the German government of Chancellor Gerhard Schrder in the 2001 Afghan War. This put them at odds with many Greens worldwide, but demonstrated that they were capable of difficult political tradeoffs.
In Latvia, Indulis Emsis, leader of the Green Party and part of the Union of Greens and Farmers, an alliance of a Nordic agrarian party and the Green Party, was Prime Minister of Latvia for ten months in 2004, making him the first Green politician to lead a country in the history of the world. In 2015, Emsis' party colleague, Raimonds Vjonis, was elected President of Latvia by the Latvian parliament. Vjonis became the first green head of state worldwide.
In the German state of Baden-Wrttenburg, the Green Party became the leader of the coalition with the Social Democrats after finishing second in the Baden-Wrttemberg state election, 2011. In the following state election, 2016, the Green Party became the strongest party for the first time in a German Landtag.
In 2016, the former leader of the Austrian green party (1997-2008), Alexander Van der Bellen, officially running as an independent, won the Austrian presidential election, 2016, making him the second green head of state worldwide, the first directly elected by popular vote. Van der Bellen became second in the election's first round with 21.3% of the votes, the best result for the Austrian greens in their history. He won the second round run-off against the far-right Freedom party's Norbert Hofer with 50.3% of the votes, making him the first President of Austria who was not backed by either the People's or the Social Democratic party.
Core tenets[edit]
According to Derek Wall, a prominent British Green proponent, there are four pillars that define Green politics:[2]
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Grassroots democracy
Nonviolence
In 1984, the Green Committees of Correspondence in the United States expanded the Four Pillars into Ten Key Values which, in addition to the Four Pillars mentioned above, include:
Decentralization
Community-based economics
Post-patriarchal values (later translated to Feminism)
Respect for diversity
Global responsibility
Future focus
In 2001, the Global Greens were organized as an international Green movement. The Global Greens Charter identified six guiding principles:
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Participatory democracy
Nonviolence
Sustainability
Respect for diversity
Ecology[edit]
Economics[edit]
Main article: Green economics
Green economics focuses on the importance of the health of the biosphere to human well-being. Consequently, most Greens distrust conventional capitalism, as it tends to emphasize economic growth while ignoring ecological health; the "full cost" of economic growth often includes damage to the biosphere, which is unacceptable according to green politics. Green economics considers such growth to be "uneconomic growth" material increase that nonetheless lowers overall quality of life.
Some Greens refer to productivism, consumerism and scientism[citation needed] as "grey", as contrasted with "green", economic views. "Grey" implies age, concrete, and lifelessness.
Therefore, adherents to green politics advocate economic policies designed to safeguard the environment. Greens want governments to stop subsidizing companies that waste resources or pollute the natural world, subsidies that Greens refer to as "dirty subsidies". Some currents of green politics place automobile and agribusiness subsidies in this category, as they may harm human health. On the contrary, Greens look to a green tax shift that are seen to encourage both producers and consumers to make ecologically friendly choices.
Green economics is on the whole anti-globalist. According to Greens, economic globalization is considered a threat to well-being, which will replace natural environments and local cultures with a single trade economy, termed the global economic monoculture.
Since green economics emphasizes biospheric health, an issue outside the traditional left-right spectrum, different currents within green politics incorporate ideas from socialism and capitalism. Greens on the Left are often identified as Eco-socialists, who merge ecology and environmentalism with socialism and Marxism and blame the capitalist system for environmental degradation, social injustice, inequality and conflict. Eco-capitalists, on the other hand, believe that the free market system, with some modification, is capable of addressing ecological problems. This belief is documented in the business experiences of eco-capitalists in the book, The Gort Cloud that describes the gort cloud as the green community that supports eco-friendly businesses.
Participatory democracy[edit]
Since the beginning, green politics has emphasized local, grassroots-level political activity and decision-making. According to its adherents, it is crucial that citizens play a direct role in the decisions that influence their lives and their environment. Therefore, green politics seeks to increase the role of deliberative democracy, based on direct citizen involvement and consensus decision making, wherever it is feasible.
Green politics also encourages political action on the individual level, such as ethical consumerism, or buying things that are made according to environmentally ethical standards. Indeed, many green parties emphasize individual and grassroots action at the local and regional levels over electoral politics. Historically, green parties have grown at the local level, gradually gaining influence and spreading to regional or provincial politics, only entering the national arena when there is a strong network of local support.
In addition, many Greens believe that governments should not levy taxes against strictly local production and trade. Some Greens advocate new ways of organizing authority to increase local control, including urban secession and bioregional democracy.
Other issues[edit]
The sunflower is an internationally recognized symbol of Green politics.[19]
Green politics on the whole is opposed to nuclear power and the buildup of persistent organic pollutants, supporting adherence to the precautionary principle, by which technologies are rejected unless they can be proven to not cause significant harm to the health of living things or the biosphere.
In the spirit of nonviolence, Green politics opposes the War on Terrorism and the curtailment of civil rights, focusing instead on nurturing deliberative democracy in war-torn regions and the construction of a civil society with an increased role for women.
In Europe, Green parties tend to support the creation of a democratic federal Europe.
Although Greens in the United States "call for an end to the 'War on Drugs'" and "for decriminalization of victimless crimes", they also call for developing "a firm approach to law enforcement that directly addresses violent crime, including trafficking in hard drugs".[20]
Green platforms generally favor tariffs on fossil fuels, restricting genetically modified organisms, and protections for ecoregions or communities. In keeping with their commitment to the preservation of diversity, greens are often committed to the maintenance and protection of indigenous communities, languages, and traditions. An example of this is the Irish Green Party's commitment to the preservation of the Irish Language.[21]
Some of the green movement has focused on divesting in fossil fuels. Academics Stand Against Poverty states "it is paradoxical for universities to remain invested in fossil fuel companies". Thomas Pogge says that the fossil fuel divestment movement can increase political pressure at events like the international climate change conference (COP).[22] Alex Epstein of Forbes notes that it is hypocritical to ask for divestment without a boycott and that a boycott would be more effective.[23] Some institutions that are leading by example in the academic area are Stanford University, Syracuse University, Sterling College and over 20 more. A number of cities, counties and religious institutions have also joined the movement to divest.[24][25]
Organization[edit]
Local movements[edit]
Green ideology emphasizes participatory democracy and the principle of "thinking globally, acting locally". As such, the ideal Green Party is thought to grow from the bottom up, from neighborhood to municipal to (eco-)regional to national levels. The goal is to rule by a consensus decision making process.
Strong local coalitions are considered a pre-requisite to higher-level electoral breakthroughs. Historically, the growth of Green parties has been sparked by a single issue where Greens can appeal to ordinary citizens' concerns. In Germany, for example, the Greens' early opposition to nuclear power won them their first successes in the federal elections.
Global organization[edit]
There is a growing level of global cooperation between Green parties. Global gatherings of Green Parties now happen. The first Planetary Meeting of Greens was held 3031 May 1992, in Rio de Janeiro, immediately preceding the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held there. More than 200 Greens from 28 nations attended. The first formal Global Greens Gathering took place in Canberra, in 2001, with more than 800 Greens from 72 countries in attendance. The second Global Green Congress was held in So Paulo, Brazil, in May 2008, when 75 parties were represented.
Global Green networking dates back to 1990. Following the Planetary Meeting of Greens in Rio de Janeiro, a Global Green Steering Committee was created, consisting of two seats for each continent. In 1993 this Global Steering Committee met in Mexico City and authorized the creation of a Global Green Network including a Global Green Calendar, Global Green Bulletin, and Global Green Directory. The Directory was issued in several editions in the next years. In 1996, 69 Green Parties from around the world signed a common declaration opposing French nuclear testing in the South Pacific, the first statement of global greens on a current issue. A second statement was issued in December 1997, concerning the Kyoto climate change treaty.[26]
At the 2001 Canberra Global Gathering delegates for Green Parties from 72 countries decided upon a Global Greens Charter which proposes six key principles. Over time, each Green Party can discuss this and organize itself to approve it, some by using it in the local press, some by translating it for their web site, some by incorporating it into their manifesto, some by incorporating it into their constitution.[27] This process is taking place gradually, with online dialogue enabling parties to say where they are up to with this process.[28]
The Gatherings also agree on organizational matters. The first Gathering voted unanimously to set up the Global Green Network (GGN). The GGN is composed of three representatives from each Green Party. A companion organization was set up by the same resolution: Global Green Coordination (GGC). This is composed of three representatives from each Federation (Africa, Europe, The Americas, Asia/Pacific, see below). Discussion of the planned organization took place in several Green Parties prior to the Canberra meeting.[29] The GGC communicates chiefly by email. Any agreement by it has to be by unanimity of its members. It may identify possible global campaigns to propose to Green Parties worldwide. The GGC may endorse statements by individual Green Parties. For example, it endorsed a statement by the US Green Party on the Israel-Palestine conflict.[30]
Thirdly, Global Green Gatherings are an opportunity for informal networking, from which joint campaigning may arise. For example, a campaign to protect the New Caledonian coral reef, by getting it nominated for World Heritage Status: a joint campaign by the New Caledonia Green Party, New Caldonian indigenous leaders, the French Green Party, and the Australian Greens.[31] Another example concerns Ingrid Betancourt, the leader of the Green Party in Colombia, the Green Oxygen Party (Partido Verde Oxigeno). Ingrid Betancourt and the party's Campaign Manager, Claire Rojas, were kidnapped by a hard-line faction of FARC on 7 March 2002, while travelling in FARC-controlled territory. Betancourt had spoken at the Canberra Gathering, making many friends. As a result, Green Parties all over the world have organized, pressing their governments to bring pressure to bear. For example, Green Parties in African countries, Austria, Canada, Brazil, Peru, Mexico, France, Scotland, Sweden and other countries have launched campaigns calling for Betancourt's release. Bob Brown, the leader of the Australian Greens, went to Colombia, as did an envoy from the European Federation, Alain Lipietz, who issued a report.[32] The four Federations of Green Parties issued a message to FARC.[33] Ingrid Betancourt was rescued by the Colombian military in Operation Jaque in 2008.
Global Green meetings[edit]
Separately from the Global Green Gatherings, Global Green Meetings take place. For instance, one took place on the fringe of the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Green Parties attended from Australia, Taiwan, Korea, South Africa, Mauritius, Uganda, Cameroon, Republic of Cyprus, Italy, France, Belgium, Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway, the USA, Mexico and Chile.
The Global Green Meeting discussed the situation of Green Parties on the African continent; heard a report from Mike Feinstein, former Mayor of Santa Monica, about setting up a web site of the GGN; discussed procedures for the better working of the GGC; and decided two topics on which the Global Greens could issue statements in the near future: Iraq and the 2003 WTO meeting in Cancun.
Green federations[edit]
The member parties of the Global Greens are organised into four continental federations:
Federation of Green Parties of Africa
Federation of the Green Parties of the Americas / Federacin de los Partidos Verdes de las Amricas
Asia-Pacific Green Network
European Federation of Green Parties
The European Federation of Green Parties formed itself as the European Green Party on 22 February 2004, in the run-up to European Parliament elections in June 2004, a further step in trans-national integration.
Currents[edit]
Green politics is usually said to include the green anarchism, eco-anarchism, green libertarianism, green liberalism, anti-nuclear movements, and peace movements, although these often claim not to be aligned with any party. Some claim it also includes feminism, pacifism and the animal rights movements. Some Greens support policy measures to empower women, especially mothers; to oppose war, de-escalate conflicts, and stop proliferating technologies useful in conflict or likely to lead to conflict; and Great ape personhood.
Greens on the Left adhere to eco-socialism, an ideology that combines ecology, environmentalism, socialism, and Marxism to criticize the capitalist system as the cause of ecological crises, social exclusion, inequality, and conflict. Green parties are not eco-socialist, but some Green parties around the world have or have had a significant eco-socialist membership.[citation needed]
Despite this stereotype, some centrist Greens may subscribe to a more classical liberal Georgist or geolibertarian philosophy emphasizing individual property rights and free-market environmentalism and shifting taxes away from value created by labor or service and charging instead for human consumption of the wealth created by the natural world (see land value tax and ecotax).
Greens may view the processes by which living beings compete for mates, homes, and food, ecology, and the cognitive and political sciences very differently. These differences tend to drive debate on ethics, formation of policy, and the public resolution of these differences in leadership races. There is no single "Green Ethic".
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Ecology portal
Environment portal
Earth_sciences portal
Outline of green politics (list of related articles, organized for easy browsing)
Notes[edit]
^ Peter Reed; David Rothenberg (1993). Wisdom in the Open Air: The Norwegian Roots of Deep Ecology. University of Minnesota Press. p.84. ISBN978-0-8166-2182-8.
^ a b Wall 2010. p. 12-13.
^ Derek Wall (2010). The No-nonsense Guide to Green Politics. New Internationalist. p.12. ISBN978-1-906523-39-8.
^ Jon Burchell (2002). The Evolution of Green Politics: Development and Change Within European Green Parties. Earthscan. p.52. ISBN978-1-85383-751-7.
^ Playing by the Rules: The Impact of Electoral Systems on Emerging Green Parties. ProQuest. 2007. p.79. ISBN978-0-549-13249-3.
^ Peet and Watts, 1996, p.6.
^ Robbins, 2012.
^ Dustin Mulvaney (2011). Green Politics, An A-to-Z Guide. SAGE publications. p.394.
^ Wall 2010. p. 47-66.
^ Keys, David (December 2003). "How Rome polluted the world". Geographical. 75 (12).
^ McCormick, John. The Global Environmental Movement (London: John Wiley, 1995).
^ Staudenmaier, Peter. "Fascist Ecology: The 'Green Wing' of the Nazi Party and its Historical Antecedents.". Archived from the original on 13 March 2008. Retrieved 24 March 2008.
^ Biehl, Janet; Staudenmaier, Peter (1995). ""Ecology" and the Modernization of Fascism in the German Ultra-Right". Ecofascism: Lessons from the German Experience. AK Press. ISBN978-1873176733.
^ Uektter, Frank (2006). The green and the brown: a history of conservation in Nazi Germany. Cambridge University Press. p.202. ISBN9780521612777.
^ Kempton, Richard. "Amsterdam's Anarchist Revolt" (PDF). The Provos.
^ Wall 2010. p. 14.
^ "The History of The Green Party". Greens.org.nz. Retrieved 2015-03-16.
^ "The Green Movement". Green Party of Canada. Retrieved February 12, 2015.
^ Roussopoulos, Dimitrios (1993). Political ecology: beyond environmentalism. Montreal: Black Rose Books. p.114. ISBN1-895431-80-8. Not surprisingly the colours green and yellow are used widely in the symbols of ecologists, the former evoking vegetation and the latter the sun. The sunflower, a popular symbol, embodies both colours, and turns towards the sun, the source of renewable energy. The bicycle is another important icon as bicycle transportation is regarded as one of the means to re-humanise society.
^ "Green Party of the United States platform: Criminal Justice". Green Party. 2004. Retrieved February 12, 2015.
^ "Green Party Irish Language Policy" (pdf). the Green Party of Ireland. 2014.
^ Howard, Emma. "Top academics ask world's universities to divest from fossil fuels". The Guardian. Retrieved 7 April 2015.
^ Epstein, Alex. "The Moral Case For Investing, Not Divesting, In Fossil Fuels". Forbes. Retrieved 7 April 2015.
^ "Divestment Commitments". FossilFree.org. Retrieved 7 April 2015.
^ "Syracuse University to divest fossil fuel investments". Retrieved 7 April 2015.
^ John Rensenbrink (August 2003). "Global Greens Network - a brief history up to 2003". Global Greens.
^ "Canadian Greens / Green Party of Canada Constitution". green party of canada. Archived from the original on 18 February 2004.
^ "iG - Notcias, Vdeos, Famosos, Esportes, Bate Papo, Infogrficos". Greenparties.hpg.ig.com.br. 2013-09-17. Retrieved 2015-03-16.
^ "Global Network of Green Parties". Australian Greens. Archived from the original on 1 March 2003.
^ "Statement of the Global Green Coordination on the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict". Green Party US. Archived from the original on 18 February 2003.
^ "Spinifex 4, Newsletter of the 2001 Global Greens Congress" (pdf). Consensus Productions.
^ "Alain LIPIETZ  BOGOTA du 3 au 5 mars 2002". Providence College: Tony Affigne: Green parties of the world declare: "Free Ingrid Betancourt and Clara Rojas!" (in French). Archived from the original on 16 February 2004.
^ "Green Parties of the World Call for Ingrid Betancout's Freedom". Green Parties world wide. Archived from the original on 20 November 2008.
References[edit]
Wall, Derek (2010). The No-Nonsense Guide to Green Politics. Oxford: New Internationalist Publications. ISBN978-1-906523-39-8.
Further reading[edit]
Dobson, Andrew (2007). Green Politicial Thought. 4. Edition (1. Edition 1980), London/ New York: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-40351-0 (Hardcover)
Gilk, Paul (2009). "Green Politics is Eutopian". The Lutterworth Press.
Spretnak, Charlene (1986). The Spiritual Dimension of Green Politics. Santa Fe, N.M.: Bear & Co. 95 p. ISBN 0-939680-29-7
External links[edit]
Library resources about
Green politics
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
Global Greens Charter, Canberra 2001
Ecology and Society  book on politics and sociology of environmentalism
v
t
e
Green politics
Core topics
Green politics
Green party
List of topics
Four Pillars
Ecological wisdom
Social justice
Grassroots democracy
Nonviolence
Perspectives
Bright green environmentalism
Deep ecology
Eco-capitalism
Eco-feminism
Eco-nationalism
Eco-socialism
Green anarchism
Green conservatism
Green left
Green liberalism
Green libertarianism
Green syndicalism
Social ecology
Green Zionism
Organizations
Asia Pacific Greens Federation
European Green Party
Federation of Green Parties of Africa
Federation of the Green Parties of the Americas
Federation of Young European Greens
Global Greens
Global Young Greens
Related topics
Anti-environmentalism
Climate change politics
Conservation movement
Eco-terrorism
Ecocentrism
Ecological modernization
Environmental issues
Environmental justice
Environmental movement
Environmentalism
Politics portal
Environment portal
v
t
e
Political ideologies
Left-wing politics
Centrism
Right-wing politics
Authoritarianism
Anarchism
Capitalism
Christian democracy
Collectivism
Common Sense Progressive
Communalism
Communism
Communitarianism
Conservatism
Constitutionalism
Distributism
Environmentalism
Extremism
Fanaticism
Fascism
Feminism
Fundamentalism
Globalism
Green politics
Individualism
Industrialism
Intellectualism
Islamism
Liberalism
Libertarianism
Masculism
Militarism
Monarchism
Nationalism
Progressivism
Radicalism
Reformism
Republicanism
Social democracy
Socialism
Utilitarianism
v
t
e
Green parties by country
Africa
Algeria
Angola
Benin
Burkina Faso
Ecologist Party
Greens of Burkina
Rally of the Ecologists
Burundi
Central African Republic
Chad
Cameroon
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Egypt
Gabon
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Ivory Coast
Kenya
Madagascar
Mali
Mauritius
Morocco
The Greens
Izigzawen
Mozambique
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
Senegal
Sierra Leone
Somalia
Green Party
Democratic Green Party
South Africa
Green Alliance
Green Party
Togo
Tunisia
Uganda
Ecological Party
Green Party
Zambia
Americas
Argentina
Belize
Bolivia
Brazil
Canada
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Dominican Republic
Guatemala
French Guyana
Haiti
Mexico
Nicaragua
Peru
Puerto Rico
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
United States
Uruguay
Green
Sol
PERI
Venezuela
Asia-Pacific
Australia
Fiji
French Polynesia
Hong Kong
India
Iran
Iraq
Israel
Meretz
The Green Movement
The Greens
Japan
Lebanon
Malaysia
Mongolia
Civil Will-Green
Green Party
Nepal
Hariyali
Green Civil Society
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
South Korea
Sri Lanka
Taiwan
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Europe
(EGP
FYEG)
Albania
Andorra
Austria
Belarus
Belgium
Flanders and Brussels
Wallonia and Brussels
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bulgaria
Green Party
The Greens
Croatia
Sustainable Development of Croatia
Green List
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Green Party
Liberal-Environmental Party
Denmark
Socialist People's Party
The Greens
Estonia
Finland
France
Georgia
Germany
Alliance '90/The Greens
Ecological Democratic Party
Greece
Hungary
Dialogue for Hungary
Politics Can Be Different
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Federation of the Greens
Green Italy
Kosovo
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macedonia
Malta
Moldova
Montenegro
Netherlands
GroenLinks
The Greens
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Earth Party
Green Party
LIVRE
Romania
Ecologist Party
Green Party
Russia
Green Alternative (GROZA)
Ecological Party "The Greens" (KEDR)
Union of Greens (Green Russia)
Alliance of Greens and Social Democrats
Serbia
Green Party
Greens of Serbia
Slovakia
Slovenia
Greens
Youth Party
Spain
Catalonia Greens
Confederation of the Greens
Equo
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United Kingdom
England and Wales (Wales)
Northern Ireland
Scotland
Italic links indicate non-members or observers of the Global Greens.
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1213
Cached time: 20161120171942
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.420 seconds
Real time usage: 0.502 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2364/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 121248/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1628/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 3/500
Lua time usage: 0.185/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 5.46 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
390.195
1 - -total
40.40%
157.657
1 - Template:Reflist
17.27%
67.378
2 - Template:Citation_needed
16.11%
62.877
2 - Template:Fix
15.53%
60.584
17 - Template:Cite_web
14.85%
57.942
9 - Template:Cite_book
12.72%
49.629
2 - Template:Green_politics
10.95%
42.739
1 - Template:Green_politics_sidebar
8.95%
34.909
1 - Template:Sidebar_with_collapsible_lists
8.63%
33.675
4 - Template:Category_handler
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:188641-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120171941 and revision id 749261904
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Green_politics&oldid=749261904"
Categories: Green politicsEnvironmentalismPolitical ideologiesAnti-globalization movementHistory of environmentalismHidden categories: CS1 French-language sources (fr)Use dmy dates from July 2013All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from March 2011Articles with unsourced statements from March 2013Pages using ISBN magic links