Hydrogeneconomy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}The hydrogen economy is a proposed system of delivering energy using hydrogen. The term hydrogen economy was coined by John Bockris during a talk he gave in 1970 at General Motors (GM) Technical Center.[1] The concept was proposed earlier by geneticist J.B.S. Haldane.[2]
Proponents of a hydrogen economy advocate hydrogen as a potential fuel for motive power[3] (including cars and boats) and on-board auxiliary power, stationary power generation (e.g., for the energy needs of buildings), and as an energy storage medium (e.g., for interconversion from excess electric power generated off-peak). Molecular hydrogen of the sort that can be used as a fuel does not occur naturally in convenient reservoirs; nonetheless it can be generated by steam reformation of hydrocarbons, water electrolysis or by other methods.[4]
The spike in attention for the concept during the 2000s has been repeatedly described as a hype by critics, neutral observers and advocates of further research and development.[5][6][7] Some small-scale initiatives from that period are still trying to enable hydrogen-fuelled land transport. However, this application faces many issues, given fundamentally low conversion efficiencies and competition from other sources.[8][9]
Contents
1 Rationale
2 Current hydrogen market
3 Production, storage, infrastructure
3.1 Methods of production
3.2 Current production methods
3.2.1 Kvrner-process
3.2.2 Biological production
3.2.3 Biocatalysed electrolysis
3.2.4 Electrolysis of water
3.2.5 High-pressure electrolysis
3.2.6 High-temperature electrolysis
3.2.7 Photoelectrochemical water splitting
3.2.8 Concentrating solar thermal
3.2.9 Photoelectrocatalytic production
3.2.10 Thermochemical production
3.3 Hydrogen as a byproduct of other chemical processes
3.4 Storage
3.4.1 Pressurized hydrogen gas
3.4.2 Liquid hydrogen
3.4.3 Storage as hydride
3.4.4 Adsorption
3.4.5 Underground hydrogen storage
3.4.6 Power to gas
3.4.7 Pipeline storage
3.5 Infrastructure
3.5.1 A key tradeoff: centralized vs. distributed production
3.5.2 Distributed electrolysis
4 Fuel cells as alternative to internal combustion
5 Use as an automotive fuel and system efficiency
6 Hydrogen safety
7 Environmental concerns
8 Costs
9 Examples and pilot programs
10 Hydrogen-using alternatives to a fully distributive hydrogen economy
10.1 Ammonia economy
10.2 Hydrogen production of greenhouse-neutral alcohol
10.3 The electrical grid plus synthetic methanol fuel cells
10.4 Captive hydrogen synthetic methane production (SNG synthetic natural gas)
11 See also
12 References
13 Further reading
14 External links
Rationale[edit]
Elements of the hydrogen economy
A hydrogen economy was proposed by the University of Michigan to solve some of the negative effects of using hydrocarbon fuels where the carbon is released to the atmosphere (as carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, unburnt hydrocarbons, etc.). Modern interest in the hydrogen economy can generally be traced to a 1970 technical report by Lawrence W. Jones of the University of Michigan.[10]
In the current hydrocarbon economy, transportation is fueled primarily by petroleum. Burning of hydrocarbon fuels emits carbon dioxide and other pollutants. The supply of economically usable hydrocarbon resources in the world is limited, and the demand for hydrocarbon fuels is increasing, particularly in China, India, and other developing countries.
Proponents of a world-scale hydrogen economy argue that hydrogen can be an environmentally cleaner source of energy to end-users, particularly in transportation applications, without release of pollutants (such as particulate matter) or carbon dioxide at the point of end use. A 2004 analysis asserted that "most of the hydrogen supply chain pathways would release significantly less carbon dioxide into the atmosphere than would gasoline used in hybrid electric vehicles" and that significant reductions in carbon dioxide emissions would be possible if carbon capture or carbon sequestration methods were utilized at the site of energy or hydrogen production.[11]
Hydrogen has a high energy density by weight but has a low energy density by volume when not highly compressed or liquified. An Otto cycle internal-combustion engine running on hydrogen is said to have a maximum efficiency of about 38%, 8% higher than a gasoline internal-combustion engine.[12]
The combination of the fuel cell and electric motor is 2-3 times more efficient than an internal-combustion engine.[13] However, the high capital costs of fuel cells, about $5,500/kW in 2002,[14] are one of the major obstacles of its development, meaning that the fuel cell is only technically, but not economically, more efficient than an internal-combustion engine.[15]
Other technical obstacles include hydrogen storage issues[16] and the purity requirement of hydrogen used in fuel cells  with current technology, an operating fuel cell requires the purity of hydrogen to be as high as 99.999%. On the other hand, hydrogen engine conversion technology is more economical than fuel cells.[17]
Current hydrogen market[edit]
Timeline
Hydrogen production is a large and growing industry. Globally, some 57 million metric tons of hydrogen,[18][19] equal to about 170million tons of oil equivalent, were produced in 2004. The growth rate is around 10% per year. Within the United States, 2004 production was about 11million metric tons (Mt), an average power flow of 48gigawatts. (For comparison, the average electric production in 2003 was some 442GW.) As of 2005, the economic value of all hydrogen produced worldwide is about $135billion per year.[20]
There are two primary uses for hydrogen today. About half is used in the Haber process to produce ammonia (NH3), which is then used directly or indirectly as fertilizer. Because both the world population and the intensive agriculture used to support it are growing, ammonia demand is growing. The other half of current hydrogen production is used to convert heavy petroleum sources into lighter fractions suitable for use as fuels. This latter process is known as hydrocracking. Hydrocracking represents an even larger growth area, since rising oil prices encourage oil companies to extract poorer source material, such as tar sands and oil shale. The scale economies inherent in large-scale oil refining and fertilizer manufacture make possible on-site production and "captive" use. Smaller quantities of "merchant" hydrogen are manufactured and delivered to end users as well.
If energy for hydrogen production were available (from wind, solar, fission or fusion nuclear power etc.), use of the substance for hydrocarbon synfuel production could expand captive use of hydrogen by a factor of 5 to 10. Present U.S. use of hydrogen for hydrocracking is roughly 4Mt per year. It is estimated that 37.7Mt/yr of hydrogen would be sufficient to convert enough domestic coal to liquid fuels to end U.S. dependence on foreign oil importation,[21] and less than half this figure to end dependence on Middle East oil. Coal liquefaction would present significantly worse emissions of carbon dioxide than does the current system of burning fossil petroleum, but it would eliminate the political and economic vulnerabilities inherent in US oil importation before the commercialization of tight oil in North America.[22]
As of 2004[update] and 2016, 96% of global hydrogen production is from fossil fuels[23] (48% from natural gas, 30% from oil, and 18% from coal); water electrolysis accounts for only 4%.[24] The distribution of production reflects the effects of thermodynamic constraints on economic choices: of the four methods for obtaining hydrogen, partial combustion of natural gas in a NGCC (natural gas combined cycle) power plant offers the most efficient chemical pathway and the greatest off-take of usable heat energy. (needs reference)
The large market and sharply rising prices in fossil fuels have also stimulated great interest in alternate, cheaper means of hydrogen production.[25][26] As of 2002, most hydrogen is produced on site and the cost is approximately $0.70/kg and, if not produced on site, the cost of liquid hydrogen is about $2.20/kg to $3.08/kg.[27]
Production, storage, infrastructure[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen technologies
Further information: Timeline of hydrogen technologies
Today's hydrogen is mainly produced (>90%) from fossil sources.[28] Linking its centralized production to a fleet of light-duty fuel cell vehicles would require the siting and construction of a distribution infrastructure with large investment of capital.[citation needed] Further, the technological challenge of providing safe, energy-dense storage of hydrogen on board the vehicle must be overcome to provide sufficient range between fillups.[citation needed]
Methods of production[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen production
Molecular hydrogen is not available on Earth in convenient natural reservoirs. Most hydrogen in the lithosphere is bonded to oxygen in water. Manufacturing elemental hydrogen does require the consumption of a hydrogen carrier such as a fossil fuel or water. The former carrier consumes the fossil resource and produces carbon dioxide, but often requires no further energy input beyond the fossil fuel. Decomposing water, the latter carrier, requires electrical or heat input, generated from some primary energy source (fossil fuel, nuclear power or a renewable energy). Hydrogen can also be produced by refining the effluent from geothermal sources in the lithosphere.[29] Hydrogen produced by zero emission renewable energy sources such as electrolysis of water using wind power, solar power, hydro power, wave power or tidal power is referred to as green hydrogen.[30] Hydrogen produced by non-renewable energy sources may be referred to as brown hydrogen. Hydrogen produced as a waste by-product or industrial by-product is sometimes referred to as grey hydrogen.
Current production methods[edit]
Hydrogen is industrially produced from steam reforming, which uses fossil fuels such as natural gas, oil, or coal.[31] The energy content of the produced hydrogen is less than the energy content of the original fuel, some of it being lost as excessive heat during production. Steam reforming leads to carbon dioxide emissions, in the same way as a car engine would do.
A small part (4% in 2006) is produced by electrolysis using electricity and water, consuming approximately 50kilowatt-hours of electricity per kilogram of hydrogen produced.
Kvrner-process[edit]
The Kvrner-process or Kvaerner carbon black & hydrogen process (CB&H)[28] is a method, developed in the 1980s by a Norwegian company of the same name, for the production of hydrogen from hydrocarbons (CnHm), such as methane, natural gas and biogas. Of the available energy of the feed, approximately 48% is contained in the hydrogen, 40% is contained in activated carbon and 10% in superheated steam.[32]
Biological production[edit]
Main article: Biological hydrogen production (Algae)
Fermentative hydrogen production is the fermentative conversion of organic substrate to biohydrogen manifested by a diverse group bacteria using multi enzyme systems involving three steps similar to anaerobic conversion. Dark fermentation reactions do not require light energy, so they are capable of constantly producing hydrogen from organic compounds throughout the day and night. Photofermentation differs from dark fermentation because it only proceeds in the presence of light. For example, photo-fermentation with Rhodobacter sphaeroides SH2C can be employed to convert small molecular fatty acids into hydrogen.[33] Electrohydrogenesis is used in microbial fuel cells where hydrogen is produced from organic matter (e.g. from sewage, or solid matter [34]) while 0.2 - 0.8 V is applied.
Biological hydrogen can be produced in an algae bioreactor. In the late 1990s it was discovered that if the algae is deprived of sulfur it will switch from the production of oxygen, i.e. normal photosynthesis, to the production of hydrogen.[35]
Biological hydrogen can be produced in bioreactors that use feedstocks other than algae, the most common feedstock being waste streams. The process involves bacteria feeding on hydrocarbons and excreting hydrogen and CO2. The CO2 can be sequestered successfully by several methods, leaving hydrogen gas. A prototype hydrogen bioreactor using waste as a feedstock is in operation at Welch's grape juice factory in North East, Pennsylvania.
Biocatalysed electrolysis[edit]
Besides regular electrolysis, electrolysis using microbes is another possibility. With biocatalysed electrolysis, hydrogen is generated after running through the microbial fuel cell and a variety of aquatic plants can be used. These include reed sweetgrass, cordgrass, rice, tomatoes, lupines, and algae [36]
Electrolysis of water[edit]
Electrolysis of water ship Hydrogen Challenger
Hydrogen can be made via high pressure electrolysis, low pressure electrolysis of water, or a range of other emerging electrochemical processes such as high temperature electrolysis or carbon assisted electrolysis.[37] Current best processes have an efficiency of 50% to 80%,[38][39][40] so that 1kg of hydrogen (which has a specific energy of 143 MJ/kg, about 40 kWh/kg) requires 5079 kWh of electricity. At $0.08/kWh (approx. $4/kg), it is with traditional methods 3 to 10 times costlier than steam reformation of natural gas.[27] The price difference is due to the efficiency of direct conversion of fossil fuels to produce hydrogen, rather than burning fuel to produce electricity.
High-pressure electrolysis[edit]
High pressure electrolysis is the electrolysis of water by decomposition of water (H2O) into oxygen (O2) and hydrogen gas (H2) by means of an electric current being passed through the water. The difference with a standard electrolyzer is the compressed hydrogen output around 120-200 bar (1740-2900 psi, 1220 MPa).[41] By pressurising the hydrogen in the electrolyser, through a process known as chemical compression, the need for an external hydrogen compressor is eliminated,[4] the average energy consumption for internal compression is around 3%.[42] European largest (1 400 000kg/a, High-pressure Electrolysis of water, acaline technology) hydrogen production plant is operating at Kokkola, Finland.[43]
High-temperature electrolysis[edit]
Main article: High-temperature electrolysis
Hydrogen can be generated from energy supplied in the form of heat and electricity through high-temperature electrolysis (HTE). Because some of the energy in HTE is supplied in the form of heat, less of the energy must be converted twice (from heat to electricity, and then to chemical form), and so potentially far less energy is required per kilogram of hydrogen produced.
While nuclear-generated electricity could be used for electrolysis, nuclear heat can be directly applied to split hydrogen from water. High temperature (9501000C) gas cooled nuclear reactors have the potential to split hydrogen from water by thermochemical means using nuclear heat. Research into high-temperature nuclear reactors may eventually lead to a hydrogen supply that is cost-competitive with natural gas steam reforming. General Atomics predicts that hydrogen produced in a High Temperature Gas Cooled Reactor (HTGR) would cost $1.53/kg. In 2003, steam reforming of natural gas yielded hydrogen at $1.40/kg. In 2005 natural gas prices, hydrogen costs $2.70/kg.
High-temperature electrolysis has been demonstrated in a laboratory, at 108MJ (thermal) per kilogram of hydrogen produced,[44] but not at a commercial scale. In addition, this is lower-quality "commercial" grade Hydrogen, unsuitable for use in fuel cells.[45]
Photoelectrochemical water splitting[edit]
Using electricity produced by photovoltaic systems offers the cleanest way to produce hydrogen. Water is broken into hydrogen and oxygen by electrolysisa photoelectrochemical cell (PEC) process which is also named artificial photosynthesis. William Ayers at Energy Conversion Devices demonstrated and patented the first multijunction high efficiency photoelectrochemical system for direct splitting of water in 1983.[46] This group demonstrated direct water splitting now referred to as an "artificial leaf" or "wireless solar water splitting" with a low cost thin film amorphous silicon multijunction sheet immersed directly in water. Hydrogen evolved on the front amorphous silcon surface decorated with various catalysts while oxygen evolved off the back metal substrate. A Nafion membrane above the multijunction cell provided a path for ion transport. Their patent also lists a variety of other semiconductor multijunction materials for the direct water splitting in addition to amorphous silicon and silicon germanium alloys. Research continues towards developing high-efficiency multi-junction cell technology at universities and the photovoltaic industry. If this process is assisted by photocatalysts suspended directly in water instead of using photovoltaic and an electrolytic system, the reaction is in just one step, which can improve efficiency.[47][48]
Concentrating solar thermal[edit]
Very high temperatures are required to dissociate water into hydrogen and oxygen. A catalyst is required to make the process operate at feasible temperatures. Heating the water can be achieved through the use of concentrating solar power. Hydrosol-2 is a 100-kilowatt pilot plant at the Plataforma Solar de Almera in Spain which uses sunlight to obtain the required 800 to 1,200C to heat water. Hydrosol II has been in operation since 2008. The design of this 100-kilowatt pilot plant is based on a modular concept. As a result, it may be possible that this technology could be readily scaled up to the megawatt range by multiplying the available reactor units and by connecting the plant to heliostat fields (fields of sun-tracking mirrors) of a suitable size.[49]
Photoelectrocatalytic production[edit]
A method studied by Thomas Nann and his team at the University of East Anglia consists of a gold electrode covered in layers of indium phosphide (InP) nanoparticles. They introduced an iron-sulfur complex into the layered arrangement, which when submerged in water and irradiated with light under a small electric current, produced hydrogen with an efficiency of 60%.[50]
In 2015, it was reported that Panasonic Corp. has developed a photocatalyst based on niobium nitride that can absorb 57% of sunlight to support the decomposition of water to produce hydrogen gas.[51] The company plans to achieve commercial application "as early as possible", not before 2020.
Thermochemical production[edit]
There are more than 352[52] thermochemical cycles which can be used for water splitting,[53] around a dozen of these cycles such as the iron oxide cycle, cerium(IV) oxide-cerium(III) oxide cycle, zinc zinc-oxide cycle, sulfur-iodine cycle, copper-chlorine cycle and hybrid sulfur cycle are under research and in testing phase to produce hydrogen and oxygen from water and heat without using electricity.[54] These processes can be more efficient than high-temperature electrolysis, typical in the range from 35% - 49% LHV efficiency. Thermochemical production of hydrogen using chemical energy from coal or natural gas is generally not considered, because the direct chemical path is more efficient.
None of the thermochemical hydrogen production processes have been demonstrated at production levels, although several have been demonstrated in laboratories.
Hydrogen as a byproduct of other chemical processes[edit]
The industrial production of chlorine and caustic soda by electrolysis generates a sizable amount of Hydrogen as a byproduct. In the port of Antwerp a 1MW demonstration fuel cell power plant is powered by such byproduct. This unit has been operational since late 2011.[55] The excess hydrogen is often managed with a hydrogen pinch analysis.
Storage[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen storage
Although molecular hydrogen has very high energy density on a mass basis, partly because of its low molecular weight, as a gas at ambient conditions it has very low energy density by volume. If it is to be used as fuel stored on board the vehicle, pure hydrogen gas must be stored in an energy-dense form to provide sufficient driving range.
Pressurized hydrogen gas[edit]
Increasing gas pressure improves the energy density by volume, making for smaller, but not lighter container tanks (see pressure vessel). Achieving higher pressures necessitates greater use of external energy to power the compression. The mass of the hydrogen tanks needed for compressed hydrogen reduces the fuel economy of the vehicle. Because it is a small molecule, hydrogen tends to diffuse through any liner material intended to contain it, leading to the embrittlement, or weakening, of its container. The most common method of on board hydrogen storage in today's demonstration vehicles is as a compressed gas at pressures of roughly 700bar (70MPa).
Liquid hydrogen[edit]
Alternatively, higher volumetric energy density liquid hydrogen or slush hydrogen may be used. However, liquid hydrogen is cryogenic and boils at 20.268K (252.882C or 423.188F). Cryogenic storage cuts weight but requires large liquification energies. The liquefaction process, involving pressurizing and cooling steps, is energy intensive. The liquefied hydrogen has lower energy density by volume than gasoline by approximately a factor of four, because of the low density of liquid hydrogen  there is actually more hydrogen in a liter of gasoline (116grams) than there is in a liter of pure liquid hydrogen (71grams). Liquid hydrogen storage tanks must also be well insulated to minimize boil off. Ice may form around the tank and help corrode it further if the liquid hydrogen tank insulation fails.
Storage as hydride[edit]
Distinct from storing molecular hydrogen, hydrogen can be stored as a chemical hydride or in some other hydrogen-containing compound. Hydrogen gas is reacted with some other materials to produce the hydrogen storage material, which can be transported relatively easily. At the point of use the hydrogen storage material can be made to decompose, yielding hydrogen gas. As well as the mass and volume density problems associated with molecular hydrogen storage, current barriers to practical storage schemes stem from the high pressure and temperature conditions needed for hydride formation and hydrogen release. For many potential systems hydriding and dehydriding kinetics and heat management are also issues that need to be overcome. A French company McPhy Energy [3] is developing the first industrial product, based on Magnesium Hydrate, already sold to some major clients such as Iwatani and ENEL.
Adsorption[edit]
A third approach is to adsorb molecular hydrogen on the surface of a solid storage material. Unlike in the hydrides mentioned above, the hydrogen does not dissociate/recombine upon charging/discharging the storage system, and hence does not suffer from the kinetic limitations of many hydride storage systems. Hydrogen densities similar to liquefied hydrogen can be achieved with appropriate adsorbent materials. Some suggested adsorbents include activated carbon, nanostructured carbons (including CNTs), MOFs, and hydrogen clathrate hydrate.
Underground hydrogen storage[edit]
Underground hydrogen storage is the practice of hydrogen storage in underground caverns, salt domes and depleted oil and gas fields.[56][57] Large quantities of gaseous hydrogen have been stored in underground caverns by Imperial Chemical Industries (ICI) for many years without any difficulties.[58] The European project Hyunder[59] indicated in 2013 that for the storage of wind and solar energy an additional 85 caverns are required as it can't be covered by pumped-storage hydroelectricity and compressed air energy storage systems.[60]
Power to gas[edit]
Power to gas is a technology which converts electrical power to a gas fuel. There are 2 methods, the first is to use the electricity for water splitting and inject the resulting hydrogen into the natural gas grid. The second (less efficient) method is used to convert carbon dioxide and water to methane, (see natural gas) using electrolysis and the Sabatier reaction. The excess power or off peak power generated by wind generators or solar arrays is then used for load balancing in the energy grid. Using the existing natural gas system for hydrogen Fuel cell maker Hydrogenics and natural gas distributor Enbridge have teamed up to develop such a power to gas system in Canada.[61]
Pipeline storage[edit]
A natural gas network may be used for the storage of hydrogen. Before switching to natural gas, the German gas networks were operated using towngas, which for the most part consisted of hydrogen. The storage capacity of the German natural gas network is more than 200,000 GWh which is enough for several months of energy requirement. By comparison, the capacity of all German pumped storage power plants amounts to only about 40 GWh. The transport of energy through a gas network is done with much less loss (<0.1%) than in a power network (8%). The use of the existing natural gas pipelines for hydrogen was studied by NaturalHy[62]
Infrastructure[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen infrastructure
Praxair Hydrogen Plant
The hydrogen infrastructure would consist mainly of industrial hydrogen pipeline transport and hydrogen-equipped filling stations like those found on a hydrogen highway. Hydrogen stations which were not situated near a hydrogen pipeline would get supply via hydrogen tanks, compressed hydrogen tube trailers, liquid hydrogen trailers, liquid hydrogen tank trucks or dedicated onsite production.
Because of hydrogen embrittlement of steel, and corrosion[63][64] natural gas pipes require internal coatings or replacement in order to convey hydrogen. Techniques are well-known; over 700 miles of hydrogen pipeline currently exist in the United States. Although expensive, pipelines are the cheapest way to move hydrogen. Hydrogen gas piping is routine in large oil-refineries, because hydrogen is used to hydrocrack fuels from crude oil.
Hydrogen piping can in theory be avoided in distributed systems of hydrogen production, where hydrogen is routinely made on site using medium or small-sized generators which would produce enough hydrogen for personal use or perhaps a neighborhood. In the end, a combination of options for hydrogen gas distribution may succeed.
While millions of tons of elemental hydrogen are distributed around the world each year in various ways, bringing hydrogen to individual consumers would require an evolution of the fuel infrastructure. For example, according to GM, 70% of the U.S. population lives near a hydrogen-generating facility but has little public access to that hydrogen. The same study however, shows that building the infrastructure in a systematic way is much more doable and affordable than most people think. For example, one article has noted that hydrogen stations could be put within every 10 miles in metro Los Angeles, and on the highways between LA and neighboring cities like Palm Springs, Las Vegas, San Diego and Santa Barbara, for the cost of a Starbuck's latte for every one of the 15 million residents living in these areas.[65]
A key tradeoff: centralized vs. distributed production[edit]
In a future full hydrogen economy, primary energy sources and feedstock would be used to produce hydrogen gas as stored energy for use in various sectors of the economy. Producing hydrogen from primary energy sources other than coal, oil, and natural gas, would result in lower production of the greenhouse gases characteristic of the combustion of these fossil energy resources.
One key feature of a hydrogen economy would be that in mobile applications (primarily vehicular transport) energy generation and use could be decoupled. The primary energy source would need no longer travel with the vehicle, as it currently does with hydrocarbon fuels. Instead of tailpipes creating dispersed emissions, the energy (and pollution) could be generated from point sources such as large-scale, centralized facilities with improved efficiency. This would allow the possibility of technologies such as carbon sequestration, which are otherwise impossible for mobile applications. Alternatively, distributed energy generation schemes (such as small scale renewable energy sources) could be used, possibly associated with hydrogen stations.
Aside from the energy generation, hydrogen production could be centralized, distributed or a mixture of both. While generating hydrogen at centralized primary energy plants promises higher hydrogen production efficiency, difficulties in high-volume, long range hydrogen transportation (due to factors such as hydrogen damage and the ease of hydrogen diffusion through solid materials) makes electrical energy distribution attractive within a hydrogen economy. In such a scenario, small regional plants or even local filling stations could generate hydrogen using energy provided through the electrical distribution grid. While hydrogen generation efficiency is likely to be lower than for centralized hydrogen generation, losses in hydrogen transport could make such a scheme more efficient in terms of the primary energy used per kilogram of hydrogen delivered to the end user.
The proper balance between hydrogen distribution and long-distance electrical distribution is one of the primary questions that arises about the hydrogen economy.
Again the dilemmas of production sources and transportation of hydrogen can now be overcome using on site (home, business, or fuel station) generation of hydrogen from off grid renewable sources.[4].
Distributed electrolysis[edit]
Distributed electrolysis would bypass the problems of distributing hydrogen by distributing electricity instead. It would use existing electrical networks to transport electricity to small, on-site electrolysers located at filling stations. However, accounting for the energy used to produce the electricity and transmission losses would reduce the overall efficiency.
Natural gas combined cycle power plants, which account for almost all construction of new electricity generation plants in the United States, generate electricity at efficiencies of 60 percent or greater.[citation needed] Increased demand for electricity, whether due to hydrogen cars or other demand, would have the marginal impact of adding new combined cycle power plants. On this basis, distributed production of hydrogen would be roughly 40% efficient. However, if the marginal impact is referred to today's power grid, with an efficiency of roughly 40% owing to its mix of fuels and conversion methods, the efficiency of distributed hydrogen production would be roughly 25%.[66]
The distributed production of hydrogen in this fashion would be expected to generate air emissions of pollutants and carbon dioxide at various points in the supply chain, e.g., electrolysis, transportation and storage. Such externalities as pollution must be weighed against the potential advantages of a hydrogen economy.
Fuel cells as alternative to internal combustion[edit]
Main articles: Fuel cell and Hydrogen vehicle
One of the main offerings of a hydrogen economy is that the fuel can replace the fossil fuel burned in internal combustion engines and turbines as the primary way to convert chemical energy into kinetic or electrical energy; hereby eliminating greenhouse gas emissions and pollution from that engine. Although hydrogen can be used in conventional internal combustion engines, fuel cells, being electrochemical, have a theoretical efficiency advantage over heat engines. Fuel cells are more expensive to produce than common internal combustion engines.
Some types of fuel cells work with hydrocarbon fuels,[67] while all can be operated on pure hydrogen. In the event that fuel cells become price-competitive with internal combustion engines and turbines, large gas-fired power plants could adopt this technology.
Hydrogen gas must be distinguished as "technical-grade" (five times pure), which is suitable for applications such as fuel cells, and "commercial-grade", which has carbon- and sulfur-containing impurities, but which can be produced by the much cheaper steam-reformation process. Fuel cells require high-purity hydrogen because the impurities would quickly degrade the life of the fuel cell stack.
Much of the interest in the hydrogen economy concept is focused on the use of fuel cells to power electric cars. Current hydrogen fuel cells suffer from a low power-to-weight ratio.[68] Fuel cells are much more efficient than internal combustion engines, and produce no harmful emissions. If a practical method of hydrogen storage is introduced, and fuel cells become cheaper, they can be economically viable to power hybrid fuel cell/battery vehicles, or purely fuel cell-driven ones. The economic viability of fuel cell powered vehicles will improve as the hydrocarbon fuels used in internal combustion engines become more expensive, because of the depletion of easily accessible reserves or economic accounting of environmental impact through such measures as carbon taxes.
Other fuel cell technologies based on the exchange of metal ions (e.g. zinc-air fuel cells) are typically more efficient at energy conversion than hydrogen fuel cells, but the widespread use of any electrical energy chemical energy electrical energy systems would necessitate the production of electricity.
Since the 2003 State of the Union address, when the notion of the hydrogen economy came to national prominence in the United States, there has been a steady chorus of naysayers. Most recently, in 2013, Lux Research, Inc. issued a report that stated: "The dream of a hydrogen economy ... is no nearer." It concluded that "Capital cost, not hydrogen supply, will limit adoption to a mere 5.9 GW" by 2030, providing "a nearly insurmountable barrier to adoption, except in niche applications". Lux's analysis speculated that by 2030, PEM stationary market will reach $1 billion, while the vehicle market, including forklifts, will reach a total of $2 billion.[69]
Use as an automotive fuel and system efficiency[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen fuel
An accounting of the energy utilized during a thermodynamic process, known as an energy balance, can be applied to automotive fuels. With today's technology, the manufacture of hydrogen via steam reforming can be accomplished with a thermal efficiency of 75 to 80percent. Additional energy will be required to liquefy or compress the hydrogen, and to transport it to the filling station via truck or pipeline. The energy that must be utilized per kilogram to produce, transport and deliver hydrogen (i.e., its well-to-tank energy use) is approximately 50MJ using technology available in 2004. Subtracting this energy from the enthalpy of one kilogram of hydrogen, which is 141MJ, and dividing by the enthalpy, yields a thermal energy efficiency of roughly 60%.[70] Gasoline, by comparison, requires less energy input, per gallon, at the refinery, and comparatively little energy is required to transport it and store it owing to its high energy density per gallon at ambient temperatures. Well-to-tank, the supply chain for gasoline is roughly 80% efficient (Wang, 2002). Another grid-based method of supplying hydrogen would be to use electrical to run electrolysers. Roughly 6% of electricity is lost during transmission along power lines, and the process of converting the fossil fuel to electricity in the first place is roughly 33 percent efficient. Thus if efficiency is the key determinant it would be unlikely hydrogen vehicles would be fueled by such a method, and indeed viewed this way, electric vehicles would appear to be a better choice. However, as noted above, hydrogen can be produced from a number of feedstocks, in centralized or distributed fashion, and these afford more efficient pathways to produce and distribute the fuel.
A study of the well-to-wheels efficiency of hydrogen vehicles compared to other vehicles in the Norwegian energy system indicates that hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles (FCV) tend to be about a third as efficient as EVs when electrolysis is used, with hydrogen Internal Combustion Engines (ICE) being barely a sixth as efficient. Even in the case where hydrogen fuel cells get their hydrogen from natural gas reformation rather than electrolysis, and EVs get their power from a natural gas power plant, the EVs still come out ahead 35% to 25% (and only 13% for a H2 ICE). This compares to 14% for a gasoline ICE, 27% for a gasoline ICE hybrid, and 17% for a diesel ICE, also on a well-to-wheels basis.[71]
Hydrogen has been called one of the least efficient and most expensive possible replacements for gasoline (petrol) in terms of reducing greenhouse gases; other technologies may be less expensive and more quickly implemented.[72][73] A comprehensive study of hydrogen in transportation applications has found that "there are major hurdles on the path to achieving the vision of the hydrogen economy; the path will not be simple or straightforward".[11] Although Ford Motor Company and French Renault-Nissan cancelled their hydrogen car R&D efforts in 2008 and 2009, respectively,[74][75] they signed a 2009 letter of intent with the other manufacturers and Now GMBH in September 2009 supporting the commercial introduction of FCVs by 2015.[76] A study by The Carbon Trust for the UK Department of Energy and Climate Change suggests that hydrogen technologies have the potential to deliver UK transport with near-zero emissions whilst reducing dependence on imported oil and curtailment of renewable generation. However, the technologies face very difficult challenges, in terms of cost, performance and policy. [77]
Hydrogen safety[edit]
Main article: Hydrogen safety
Hydrogen has one of the widest explosive/ignition mix range with air of all the gases with few exceptions such as acetylene, silane, and ethylene oxide. That means that whatever the mix proportion between air and hydrogen, a hydrogen leak will most likely lead to an explosion, not a mere flame, when a flame or spark ignites the mixture. This makes the use of hydrogen particularly dangerous in enclosed areas such as tunnels or underground parking.[78] Pure hydrogen-oxygen flames burn in the ultraviolet color range and are nearly invisible to the naked eye, so a flame detector is needed to detect if a hydrogen leak is burning. Hydrogen is odorless and leaks cannot be detected by smell.
Hydrogen codes and standards are codes and standards for hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, stationary fuel cell applications and portable fuel cell applications. There are codes and standards for the safe handling and storage of hydrogen, for example the standard for the installation of stationary fuel cell power systems from the National Fire Protection Association.
Codes and standards have repeatedly been identified as a major institutional barrier to deploying hydrogen technologies and developing a hydrogen economy. To enable the commercialization of hydrogen in consumer products, new model building codes and equipment and other technical standards are developed and recognized by federal, state, and local governments.[79]
One of the measures on the roadmap is to implement higher safety standards like early leak detection with hydrogen sensors.[80] The Canadian Hydrogen Safety Program concluded that hydrogen fueling is as safe as, or safer than, compressed natural gas (CNG) fueling.[81] The European Commission has funded the first higher educational program in the world in hydrogen safety engineering at the University of Ulster. It is expected that the general public will be able to use hydrogen technologies in everyday life with at least the same level of safety and comfort as with today's fossil fuels.
Environmental concerns[edit]
There are many concerns regarding the environmental effects of the manufacture of hydrogen. Hydrogen is made either by electrolysis of water, or by fossil fuel reforming. Reforming a fossil fuel leads to a higher emissions of carbon dioxide compared with direct use of the fossil fuel in an internal combustion engine. Similarly, if hydrogen is produced by electrolysis from fossil-fuel powered generators, increased carbon dioxide is emitted in comparison with direct use of the fossil fuel.
Using renewable energy source to generate hydrogen by electrolysis would require greater energy input than direct use of the renewable energy to operate electric vehicles, because of the extra conversion stages and losses in distribution. Hydrogen as transportation fuel, however, is mainly used for fuel cells that do not produce greenhouse gas emission, but water.
There have also been some concerns over possible problems related to hydrogen gas leakage.[82] Molecular hydrogen leaks slowly from most containment vessels. It has been hypothesized that if significant amounts of hydrogen gas (H2) escape, hydrogen gas may, because of ultraviolet radiation, form free radicals (H) in the stratosphere. These free radicals would then be able to act as catalysts for ozone depletion. A large enough increase in stratospheric hydrogen from leaked H2 could exacerbate the depletion process. However, the effect of these leakage problems may not be significant. The amount of hydrogen that leaks today is much lower (by a factor of 10100) than the estimated 1020% figure conjectured by some researchers; for example, in Germany, the leakage rate is only 0.1% (less than the natural gas leak rate of 0.7%). At most, such leakage would likely be no more than 12% even with widespread hydrogen use, using present technology.[82]
Costs[edit]
In 2004, the production of unit of hydrogen fuel by steam reformation or electrolysis was approximately 3 to 6 times more expensive than the production of an equivalent unit of fuel from natural gas.[83] When evaluating costs, fossil fuels are generally used as the reference. The energy content of these fuels is not a product of human effort and so has no cost assigned to it. Only the extraction, refining, transportation and production costs are considered. On the other hand, the energy content of a unit of hydrogen fuel must be manufactured, and so has a significant cost, on top of all the costs of refining, transportation, and distribution. Systems which use renewably generated electricity more directly, for example in trolleybuses, or in battery electric vehicles may have a significant economic advantage because there are fewer conversion processes required between primary energy source and point of use.
The barrier to lowering the price of high purity hydrogen is a cost of more than 35 kWh of electricity used to generate each kilogram of hydrogen gas. Hydrogen produced by steam reformation costs approximately three times the cost of natural gas per unit of energy produced. This means that if natural gas costs $6/million BTU, then hydrogen will be $18/million BTU. Also, producing hydrogen from electrolysis with electricity at 5 cents/kWh will cost $28/million BTU  about 1.5 times the cost of hydrogen from natural gas. Note that the cost of hydrogen production from electricity is a linear function of electricity costs, so electricity at 10 cents/kWh means that hydrogen will cost $56/million BTU.[83]
Demonstrated advances in electrolyser and fuel cell technology by ITM Power [84] are claimed to have made significant in-roads into addressing the cost of electrolysing water to make hydrogen. Cost reduction would make hydrogen from off-grid renewable sources economic for refueling vehicles.
Hydrogen pipelines are more expensive[85] than even long-distance electric lines. Hydrogen is about three times bulkier in volume than natural gas for the same enthalpy. Hydrogen accelerates the cracking of steel (hydrogen embrittlement), which increases maintenance costs, leakage rates, and material costs. The difference in cost is likely to expand with newer technology: wires suspended in air can use higher voltage with only marginally increased material costs, but higher pressure pipes require proportionally more material.
Setting up a hydrogen economy would require huge investments in the infrastructure to store and distribute hydrogen to vehicles. In contrast, battery electric vehicles, which are already publicly available, would not necessitate immediate expansion of the existing infrastructure for electricity transmission and distribution. Power plant capacity that now goes unused at night could be used for recharging electric vehicles. A study conducted by the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory for the US Department of Energy in December 2006 found that the idle off-peak grid capacity in the US would be sufficient to power 84% of all vehicles in the US if they all were immediately replaced with electric vehicles.[86]
Different production methods each have differing associated investment and marginal costs. The energy and feedstock could originate from a multitude of sources, i.e. natural gas, nuclear, solar, wind, biomass, coal, other fossil fuels, and geothermal.
Natural Gas at Small Scale
Uses steam reformation. Requires 15.9million cubic feet (450,000m3) of gas, which, if produced by small 500kg/day reformers at the point of dispensing (i.e., the filling station), would equate to 777,000 reformers costing $1trillion and producing 150million tons of hydrogen gas annually. Obviates the need for distribution infrastructure dedicated to hydrogen. $3.00 per GGE (Gallons of Gasoline Equivalent)
Nuclear
Provides energy for electrolysis of water. Would require 240,000tons of unenriched uranium  that's 2,000 600-megawatt power plants, which would cost $840billion, or about $2.50 per GGE.[87]
Solar
Provides energy for electrolysis of water. Would require 2,500kWh of sun per square meter, 113million 40-kilowatt systems, which would cost $22trillion, or about $9.50 per GGE.
Wind
Provides energy for electrolysis of water. At 7meters per second average wind speed, it would require 1million 2-MW wind turbines, which would cost $3trillion, or about $3.00 per GGE.
Biomass
Gasification plants would produce gas with steam reformation. 1.5billion tons of dry biomass, 3,300 plants which would require 113.4million acres (460,000km) of farm to produce the biomass. $565billion in cost, or about $1.90 per GGE
Coal
FutureGen plants use coal gasification then steam reformation. Requires 1billion tons of coal or about 1,000 275-megawatt plants with a cost of about $500billion, or about $1 per GGE.
DOE Cost targets[88]
Examples and pilot programs[edit]
A Mercedes-Benz O530 Citaro powered by hydrogen fuel cells, in Brno, Czech Republic.
Several domestic U.S. automobile manufactures have committed to develop vehicles using hydrogen. The distribution of hydrogen for the purpose of transportation is currently being tested around the world, particularly in Portugal, Iceland, Norway, Denmark, Germany, California, Japan and Canada, but the cost is very high.
Some hospitals have installed combined electrolyser-storage-fuel cell units for local emergency power. These are advantageous for emergency use because of their low maintenance requirement and ease of location compared to internal combustion driven generators.[citation needed]
Iceland has committed to becoming the world's first hydrogen economy by the year 2050.[89] Iceland is in a unique position. Presently, it imports all the petroleum products necessary to power its automobiles and fishing fleet. Iceland has large geothermal resources, so much that the local price of electricity actually is lower than the price of the hydrocarbons that could be used to produce that electricity.
Iceland already converts its surplus electricity into exportable goods and hydrocarbon replacements. In 2002, it produced 2,000tons of hydrogen gas by electrolysis, primarily for the production of ammonia (NH3) for fertilizer. Ammonia is produced, transported, and used throughout the world, and 90% of the cost of ammonia is the cost of the energy to produce it. Iceland is also developing an aluminium-smelting industry. Aluminium costs are driven primarily by the cost of the electricity to run the smelters. Either of these industries could effectively export all of Iceland's potential geothermal electricity.
Neither industry directly replaces hydrocarbons. Reykjavk, Iceland, had a small pilot fleet of city buses running on compressed hydrogen,[90] and research on powering the nation's fishing fleet with hydrogen is under way. For more practical purposes, Iceland might process imported oil with hydrogen to extend it, rather than to replace it altogether.
The Reykjavk buses are part of a larger program, HyFLEET:CUTE,[91] operating hydrogen fueled buses in eight European cities. HyFLEET:CUTE buses were also operated in Beijing, China and Perth, Australia (see below). A pilot project demonstrating a hydrogen economy is operational on the Norwegian island of Utsira. The installation combines wind power and hydrogen power. In periods when there is surplus wind energy, the excess power is used for generating hydrogen by electrolysis. The hydrogen is stored, and is available for power generation in periods when there is little wind.[citation needed]
A joint venture between NREL and Xcel Energy is combining wind power and hydrogen power in the same way in Colorado.[92] Hydro in Newfoundland and Labrador are converting the current wind-diesel Power System on the remote island of Ramea into a Wind-Hydrogen Hybrid Power Systems facility.[93] A similar pilot project on Stuart Island uses solar power, instead of wind power, to generate electricity. When excess electricity is available after the batteries are full, hydrogen is generated by electrolysis and stored for later production of electricity by fuel cell.[94]
The UK started a fuel cell pilot program in January 2004, the program ran two Fuel cell buses on route25 in London until December 2005, and switched to route RV1 until January 2007.[95] The Hydrogen Expedition is currently working to create a hydrogen fuel cell-powered ship and using it to circumnavigate the globe, as a way to demonstrate the capability of hydrogen fuel cells.[96]
Western Australia's Department of Planning and Infrastructure operated three Daimler Chrysler Citaro fuel cell buses as part of its Sustainable Transport Energy for Perth Fuel Cells Bus Trial in Perth.[97] The buses were operated by Path Transit on regular Transperth public bus routes. The trial began in September 2004 and concluded in September 2007. The buses' fuel cells used a proton exchange membrane system and were supplied with raw hydrogen from a BP refinery in Kwinana, south of Perth. The hydrogen was a byproduct of the refinery's industrial process. The buses were refueled at a station in the northern Perth suburb of Malaga. The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) and the Turkish Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources have signed in 2003 a $40 million trust fund agreement for the creation of the International Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies (UNIDO-ICHET) in Istanbul, which started operation in 2004.[98] A hydrogen forklift, a hydrogen cart and a mobile house powered by renewable energies are being demonstrated in UNIDO-ICHET's premises. An uninterruptible power supply system has been working since April 2009 in the headquarters of Istanbul Sea Buses company.
Hydrogen-using alternatives to a fully distributive hydrogen economy[edit]
For other energy alternatives, see
Main article: Energy development
Hydrogen is simply a method to store and transmit energy. Various alternative energy transmission and storage scenarios which begin with hydrogen production, but do not use it for all parts of the store and transmission infrastructure, may be more economic, in both near and far term. These include:
Ammonia economy[edit]
An alternative to gaseous hydrogen as an energy carrier is to bond it with nitrogen from the air to produce ammonia, which can be easily liquefied, transported, and used (directly or indirectly) as a clean and renewable fuel.[99][100]
Hydrogen production of greenhouse-neutral alcohol[edit]
Main articles: Methanol economy and ethanol economy
The methanol economy is a synfuel production energy plan which may begin with hydrogen production. Hydrogen in a full "hydrogen economy" was initially suggested as a way to make renewable energy, in non-polluting form, available to automobiles. However, a theoretical alternative to address the same problem is to produce hydrogen centrally and immediately use it to make liquid fuels from a CO2 source. This would eliminate the requirement to transport and store the hydrogen. The source could be CO2 that is produced by fuel-burning power plants. In order to be greenhouse-neutral, the source for CO2 in such a plan would need to be from air, biomass, or other source of CO2 which is already in, or to be released into, the air.[101] Direct methanol fuel cells are in commercial use, though as of August 2011 they are not efficient.[citation needed]
The electrical grid plus synthetic methanol fuel cells[edit]
Main article: Carbon neutral fuel
Many of the hybrid strategies described above, using captive hydrogen to generate other more easily usable fuels, might be more effective than hydrogen-production alone. Short term energy storage (meaning the energy is used not long after it has been captured) may be best accomplished with battery or even ultracapacitor storage. Longer term energy storage (meaning the energy is used weeks or months after capture) may be better done with synthetic methane or alcohols, which can be stored indefinitely at relatively low cost, and even used directly in some type of fuel cells, for electric vehicles. These strategies dovetail well with the recent interest in Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicles, or PHEVs, which use a hybrid strategy of electrical and fuel storage for their energy needs. Hydrogen storage has been proposed by some[citation needed] to be optimal in a narrow range of energy storage time, probably somewhere between a few days and a few weeks. This range is subject to further narrowing with any improvements in battery technology. It is always possible that some kind of breakthrough in hydrogen storage or generation could occur, but this is unlikely given that the physical and chemical limitations of the technical choices are fairly well understood.[citation needed]
Captive hydrogen synthetic methane production (SNG synthetic natural gas)[edit]
In a similar way as with synthetic alcohol production, hydrogen can be used on site to directly (nonbiologically) produce greenhouse-neutral gaseous fuels. Thus, captive-hydrogen-mediated production of greenhouse-neutral methane has been proposed (note that this is the reverse of the present method of acquiring hydrogen from natural methane, but one that does not require ultimate burning and release of fossil fuel carbon). Captive hydrogen (and carbon dioxide from, for example, CCS (Carbon Capture & Storage)) may be used onsite to synthesize methane, using the Sabatier reaction. This is about 60% efficient, and with the round trip reducing to 20 to 36% depending on the method of fuel utilization. This is even lower than hydrogen, but the storage costs drop by at least a factor of 3, because of methane's higher boiling point and higher energy density. Liquid methane has 3.2 times the energy density of liquid hydrogen and is easier to store compactly. Additionally, the pipe infrastructure (natural gas pipelines) are already in place. Natural-gas-powered vehicles already exist, and are known to be easier to adapt from existing internal engine technology, than internal combustion autos running directly on hydrogen. Experience with natural gas powered vehicles shows that methane storage is inexpensive, once one has accepted the cost of conversion to store the fuel. However, the cost of alcohol storage is even lower, so this technology would need to produce methane at a considerable savings with regard to alcohol production. Ultimate mature prices of fuels in the competing technologies are not presently known, but both are expected to offer substantial infrastructural savings over attempts to transport and use hydrogen directly.
It has been proposed in a hypothetical renewable energy dominated energy system to use the excess electricity generated by wind, solar photovoltaic, hydro, marine currents and others to produce hydrogen by electrolysis of water then combine it with CO2 make methane (natural gas).[102][103] Hydrogen would firstly be used onsite in fuel cells (CHP) or for transportation due to its greater efficiency of production and then methane created which could then be injected into the existing gas network to generate electricity and heat on demand to overcome low points of renewable energy production. The process described would be to create hydrogen (which could partly be used directly in fuel cells) and the addition of carbon dioxide CO2 possibly from BECCS (Bio-Energy with Carbon Capture & Storage [104]) via the (Sabatier reaction) to create methane as follows: CO2 + 4H2  CH4 + 2H2O.
Note: After combusting methane in CCGT the CO2 would again be captured, i.e., CCS and used to produce new methane.
See also[edit]
Energy portal
Renewable energy portal
Sustainable development portal
United States Hydrogen Policy
Alternative fuel
Biobased economy
Energy development
Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Technology Initiative
Hydrogen energy plant in Denmark
Qazvin hydrogen power plant
Hydrogen internal combustion engine vehicle
Hydrogen prize
Hydrogen vehicle
Industrial gas
International Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies
International Journal of Hydrogen Energy
Liquid hydrogen
Lolland Hydrogen Community
References[edit]
^ National Hydrogen Association; United States Department of Energy. "The History of Hydrogen" (PDF). hydrogenassociation.org. National Hydrogen Association. p.1. Retrieved 17 December 2010. Cite uses deprecated parameter |coauthors= (help)
^ Daedalus or Science and the Future, A paper read to the Heretics, Cambridge, on February 4th, 1923  Transcript 1993
^ A portfolio of power-trains for Europe: a fact-based analysis
^ a b Carmo, M; Fritz D; Mergel J; Stolten D (2013). "A comprehensive review on PEM water electrolysis". Journal of Hydrogen Energy. 38: 49014934. doi:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2013.01.151.
^ Bakker, Sjoerd. "The car industry and the blow-out of the hydrogen hype". Energy Policy. 38 (11): 65406544. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2010.07.019.
^ Harrison, James. "Reactions: Hydrogen hype". Chemical Engineer. 58: 774775.
^ Rizzi, Francesco Annunziata, Eleonora Liberati, Guglielmo Frey, Marco (2014). "Technological trajectories in the automotive industry: are hydrogen technologies still a possibility?". Journal of Cleaner Production. 66: 328336. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2013.11.069. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
^ Bossel, Ulrich (2006). "Does a Hydrogen Economy Make Sense?". Proceedings of the IEEE. 94 (10): 18261837. doi:10.1109/JPROC.2006.883715.
^ Meyers, Glenn. "Hydrogen Economy: Boom or Bust?". Clean Technica. Retrieved 14 Oct 2015.
^ Jones, Lawrence W (13 March 1970). Toward a liquid hydrogen fuel economy (PDF). University of Michigan Environmental Action for Survival Teach In. Ann Arbor, Michigan: University of Michigan. Retrieved 17 December 2010.
^ a b National Academy of Engineering (2004). The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers, and R&D Needs. Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press. ISBN0-309-53068-7. Retrieved 17 December 2010.
^ BMW Group Clean Energy ZEV Symposium. September 2006, p. 12
^ "EPA mileage estimates". Honda FCX Clarity - Vehicle Specifications. American Honda Motor Company. Retrieved 17 December 2010.
^ "Fuel Cells: Cost". California Distributed Energy Resource Guide. California Energy Commission. 18 January 2002. Retrieved 17 December 2010.
^ Tester, Jefferson W; Drake, Elisabeth M; Driscoll, Michael J; Golay, Michael W; Peters, William A (July 2005). Sustainable Energy: Choosing Among Options. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN978-0-262-20153-7. OCLC58451915.
^ R&D of large stationary hydrogen/CNG/HCNG storage vessels
^ "Integrated Hydrogen Production, Purification and Compression System; DOE Hydrogen Program FY 2008 Annual Progress Report" (PDF). United States Department of Energy. Retrieved 2009-09-19.
^ Badwal, Sukhvinder P.S.; Giddey, Sarbjit; Munnings, Christopher. "Hydrogen production via solid electrolytic routes". Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews: Energy and Environment. 2 (5): 473487. doi:10.1002/wene.50.
^ "Arno A. Evers FAIR-PR". Fair-pr.de. Retrieved 2009-09-19.
^ "Leeds researchers fuelling the 'hydrogen economy'". University of Leeds. 26 November 2007. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Archived copy" (PDF). Argonne National Laboratory. July 31, 2005. p.16. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-09-27. Retrieved 2010-03-03.
^ "Supply shock from North American oil rippling through global markets", IEA, International Energy Agency, 14 May 2013, retrieved 28 December 2013
^ "Global Hydrogen Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle Market Buoyed as OEMs Will Launch 17 Vehicle Models by 2027, IHS Says". IHS Inc. 4 May 2016. Retrieved 13 May 2016.
^ "Global Hydrogen Production". Hydrogenassociation.org. 2004-08-13. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ "Archived copy". Argonne National Laboratory. Archived from the original on 2007-09-22. Retrieved 2007-06-15.
^ Argonne National Laboratory. "Configuration and Technology Implications of Potential Nuclear Hydrogen System Applications" (PDF). Retrieved 29 May 2013.
^ a b "Vehicle Technologies Program: Fact #205: February 25, 2002 Hydrogen Cost and Worldwide Production". .eere.energy.gov. Retrieved 2009-09-19.
^ a b "Bellona-HydrogenReport". Interstatetraveler.us. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ http://newenergy.is/gogn/eldra_efni/brochures/nyorka_apr-08.pdf
^ "Definition of Green Hydrogen" (PDF). Clean Energy Partnership. Retrieved 2014-09-06.
^ "Actual Worldwide Hydrogen Production from ". Arno A Evers. December 2008. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ https://www.hfpeurope.org/infotools/energyinfos__e/hydrogen/main03.html
^ "High hydrogen yield from a two-step process of dark-and photo-fermentation of sucrose". Cat.inist.fr. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ "Hydrogen production from organic solid matter". Biohydrogen.nl. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ Analytical approaches to photobiological hydrogen production in unicellular green algae.
^ "Power from plants using microbial fuel cell" (in Dutch). Translate.google.com. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ Badwal, SPS (2014). "Emerging electrochemical energy conversion and storage technologies". Frontiers in Chemistry. 2. doi:10.3389/fchem.2014.00079.
^ Werner Zittel; Reinhold Wurster (1996-07-08). "Chapter 3: Production of Hydrogen. Part 4: Production from electricity by means of electrolysis". HyWeb: Knowledge - Hydrogen in the Energy Sector. Ludwig-Blkow-Systemtechnik GmbH.
^ Bjrnar Kruse; Sondre Grinna; Cato Buch (2002-02-13). "HydrogenStatus and Possibilities" (PDF). The Bellona Foundation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2002-02-13. Efficiency factors for PEM electrolysers up to 94% are predicted, but this is only theoretical at this time.
^ "high-rate and high efficiency 3D water electrolysis". Grid-shift.com. Retrieved 2011-12-13.
^ "2001-High pressure electrolysis - The key technology for efficient H.2" (PDF). Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ "2003-PHOEBUS-Pag.9" (PDF). Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ Finland exporting TEN-T fuel stations
^ "Steam heat: researchers gear up for full-scale hydrogen plant" (Press release). Science Daily. 2008-09-18. Retrieved 2008-09-19.
^ "Nuclear Hydrogen R&D Plan" (PDF). U.S. Dept. of Energy. March 2004. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ William Ayers,US Patent 4,466,869 Photolytic Production of Hydrogen
^ del Valle, F.; lvarez Galvn, M. Consuelo; Del Valle, F.; Villoria De La Mano, Jos A.; Fierro, Jos L. G.; et al. (Jun 2009). "Water Splitting on Semiconductor Catalysts under Visible-Light Irradiation". Chemsuschem. WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim. 2 (6): 471485. doi:10.1002/cssc.200900018. PMID19536754.
^ del Valle, F.; Del Valle, F.; Villoria De La Mano, J.A.; lvarez-Galvn, M.C.; Fierro, J.L.G.; et al. (2009). "Photocatalytic water splitting under visible Light: concept and materials requirements". Advances in Chemical Engineering. Academic Press. 36: 111143. doi:10.1016/S0065-2377(09)00404-9.
^ "DLR Portal - DLR scientists achieve solar hydrogen production in a 100-kilowatt pilot plant". Dlr.de. 2008-11-25. Retrieved 2009-09-19.
^ "Water Splitting by Visible Light: A Nanophotocathode for Hydrogen Production - Nann - 2010 - Angewandte Chemie International Edition - Wiley Online Library". .interscience.wiley.com. Retrieved 2011-12-13.
^ Yamamura, Tetsushi (August 2, 2015). "Panasonic moves closer to home energy self-sufficiency with fuel cells". Asahi Shimbun. Retrieved 2015-08-02.
^ "353 Thermochemical cycles" (PDF). Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ UNLV Thermochemical cycle automated scoring database (public)
^ "Development of Solar-powered Thermochemical Production of Hydrogen from Water" (PDF). Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ http://www.nedstack.com/images/stories/news/documents/20120202_Press%20release%20Solvay%20PEM%20Power%20Plant%20start%20up.pdf Nedstack
^ Eberle, Ulrich and Rittmar von Helmolt. "Sustainable transportation based on electric vehicle concepts: a brief overview". Energy & Environmental Science, Royal Society of Chemistry, 14 May 2010, accessed 2 August 2011
^ Benchmarking of selected storage options
^ 1994 - ECN abstract
^ Hyunder
^ Storing renewable energy: Is hydrogen a viable solution?
^ Anscombe, Nadya (4 June 2012). "Energy storage: Could hydrogen be the answer?". Solar Novus Today. Retrieved 3 November 2012.
^ Naturalhy
^ Idaho National Engineering Laboratory's recommendation for Gaseous Hydrogen: Stainless steel Accessed 2010-10-13
^ Stuart Island Energy Initiative Website Accessed 2010-10-13: Hydrogen has an active electron, and therefore behaves somewhat like a Halogen. The recommended pipe material is stainless steel.
^ Gross Britta K; Sutherland Ian J; Mooiweer Henk (December 2007). "Hydrogen fueling infrastructure assessment" (PDF). General Motors Research & Development Center. Retrieved 2008-09-19.
^ Nakicenovic, 1998.
^ Electricity from wood through the combination of gasification and solid oxide fuel cells, Ph.D. Thesis by Florian Nagel, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich, 2008
^ "Power-to-weight ratio". .eere.energy.gov. 2009-06-23. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ Brian Warshay, Brian. "The Great Compression: the Future of the Hydrogen Economy", Lux Research, Inc. January 2013
^ Kreith, 2004
^ Marisvensson, A; Ann Mari Svensson, Steffen Mller-Holst, Ronny Glckner and Ola Maurstad (September 2006). "Well-to-wheel study of passenger vehicles in the Norwegian energy system". Energy. 32 (4): 43745. doi:10.1016/j.energy.2006.07.029. Retrieved 2008-07-22. Cite uses deprecated parameter |coauthors= (help)
^ Boyd, Robert S. (May 15, 2007). "Hydrogen cars may be a long time coming". McClatchy Newspapers. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ Squatriglia, Chuck (May 12, 2008). "Hydrogen Cars Won't Make a Difference for 40 Years". Wired. CondNet, Inc. Retrieved 2008-05-13.
^ "Ford Motor Company Business Plan", December 2, 2008
^ Dennis, Lyle. "Nissan Swears Off Hydrogen and Will Only Build Electric Cars", All Cars Electric, February 26, 2009
^ Letter of Understanding 2009
^ "Hydrogen for transport", The Carbon Trust, 28 November 2014. Retrieved on 20 January 2015.
^ Utgikar, Vivek P; Thiesen, Todd (2005). "Safety of compressed hydrogen fuel tanks: Leakage from stationary vehicles". Technology in Society. 27 (3): 315320. doi:10.1016/j.techsoc.2005.04.005.
^ "DOE codes and standards". Hydrogen.energy.gov. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ "Hydrogen Sensor: Fast, Sensitive, Reliable, and Inexpensive to Produce" (PDF). Argonne National Laboratory. September 2006. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Canadian Hydrogen Safety Program testing H2/CNG". Hydrogenandfuelcellsafety.info. Retrieved 2010-07-05.
^ a b "Assessing the Future Hydrogen Economy (letters)" (PDF). Science. 10 October 2003. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ a b http://www.fsec.ucf.edu/en/consumer/hydrogen/basics/production.htm
^ "ITM Power makes bi-fuel breakthrough | Energy Archive". Businessweekly.co.uk. 2007-07-04. Retrieved 2009-09-19.
^ Keith, Geoffrey; William Leighty (28 September 2002). "Transmitting 4,000 MW of New Windpower from North Dakota to Chicago: New HVDC Electric Lines or Hydrogen Pipeline" (PDF). Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Mileage From Megawatts: Study Finds Enough Electric Capacity to 'Fill Up' Plug-In Vehicles Across Much of the Nation". December 11, 2006. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ Wise, Jeff (November 2006). "The Truth About Hydrogen". Popular Mechanics. pp.3. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "DOE Announces New Hydrogen Cost Goal". U.S. DoE. July 14, 2005. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ Hannesson, Hjlmar W. (2.8.2007). "Climate change as a global challenge". Iceland Ministry for Foreign Affairs. Retrieved 2008-05-09. Check date values in: |date= (help)
^ Doyle, Alister (January 14, 2005). "Iceland's hydrogen buses zip toward oil-free economy". Reuters. Retrieved 2008-05-09.[dead link]
^ "What is HyFLEET:CUTE?". Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Experimental 'wind to hydrogen' system up and running". Physorg.com. January 8, 2007. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Hydrogen Engine Center Receives Order for Hydrogen Power Generator 250kW Generator for Wind/Hydrogen Demonstration" (PDF). Hydrogen Engine Center, Inc. May 16, 2006. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Stuart Island Energy Initiative". Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Hydrogen buses". Transport for London. Archived from the original on March 23, 2008. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "The Hydrogen Expedition" (PDF). January 2005. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Perth Fuel Cell Bus Trial". Department for Planning and Infrastructure, Government of Western Australia. 13 April 2007. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Independent Mid-Term Review of the UNIDO Project: Establishment and operation of the International Centre for Hydrogen Energy Technologies (ICHET), TF/INT/03/002" (PDF). UNIDO. 31 August 2009. Retrieved 2010-07-20.
^ Agosta, Vito (July 10, 2003). "The Ammonia Economy". Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ "Renewable Energy". Iowa Energy Center. Retrieved 2008-05-09.
^ George A. Olah; G. K. Suray Prakash; Alain Goeppert (2009). "Chemical Recycling of Carbon Dioxide to Methanol and Dimethyl Ether: From Greenhouse Gas to Renewable, Environmentally Carbon Neutral Fuels and Synthetic Hydrocarbons". Journal of Organic Chemistry. 74 (2): 487498. doi:10.1021/jo801260f. PMID19063591.
^ Bioenergy and renewable power methane in integrated 100% renewable energy system, [1]
^ scnario ngaWatt 2011 (France), [2],
^ http://www.acronymfinder.com/Bio_Energy-with-Carbon-Capture-and-Storage-(greenhouse-gas-mitigation)-(BECCS).html
Further reading[edit]
Arno A. Evers (2010). The Hydrogen Society. Hydrogeit Verlag. ISBN978-3-937863-31-3.
Jeremy Rifkin (2002). The Hydrogen Economy. Penguin Putnam Inc. ISBN1-58542-193-6.
Roy McAlister (2003). The Solar Hydrogen Civilization. American Hydrogen Association. ISBN0-9728375-0-7.
Joseph J. Romm (2004). The Hype about Hydrogen, Fact and Fiction in the Race to Save the Climate. Island Press. ISBN1-55963-703-X. Author interview at Global Public Media.
James Howard Kunstler (2006). The LONG EMERGENCY. Grove Press. ISBN0-8021-4249-4. Hydrogen economy = "laughable a fantasy" p.115
M. Wang (2002). "Fuel Choices for Fuel Cell Vehicles: Well-to-Wheels Energy and Emissions Impact". Journal of Power Sources. 112: 307321. doi:10.1016/S0378-7753(02)00447-0.
F. Kreith; West, Ron (2004). "Fallacies of a Hydrogen Economy: A Critical Analysis of Hydrogen Production and Utilization". Journal of Energy Resources Technology. 126 (4): 249257. doi:10.1115/1.1834851.
Nakicenovic (1998). Global Energy Perspectives. Cambridge University Press. Summary
National Research Council (2004). The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers, and R&D Needs. National Academy Press. This book is available online in full text: "The Hydrogen Economy: Opportunities, Costs, Barriers, and R&D Needs". Books.nap.edu.
Novelli, P.C., P.M. Lang, K.A. Masarie, D.F. Hurst, R. Myers, and J.W. Elkins. (1999). "Molecular Hydrogen in the troposphere: Global distribution and budget". J. Geophys. Res. 104 (30): 42730. Bibcode:1999JGR...10430427N. doi:10.1029/1999jd900788. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
T. K. Tromp; Shia, RL; Allen, M; Eiler, JM; Yung, YL (2003). "Potential Environmental Impact of a Hydrogen Economy on the Stratosphere". Science. 300 (5626): 17401742. doi:10.1126/science.1085169. PMID12805546.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Hydrogen economy.
Gasworld website
Overview of Indian Hydrogen Programme
Hydrogen Society
International Partnership for the Hydrogen Economy
European Hydrogen Association
European Network of Excellence Safety of Hydrogen as an Energy Carrier (HySafe)
World's First Higher Educational Programme in Hydrogen Safety Engineering
NSERC hydrogen Canada
U.S.-Department of Energy
European Projects 2002-2006 FP6
EU-Fuel Cells and Hydrogen Joint Undertaking
20 Hydrogen myths - Published by the Rocky Mountain Institute, a major hydrogen economy proponent.
Does a Hydrogen Economy Make Sense?
Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Wiki
ITM Power - Economic renewable hydrogen from low cost materials (non platinum, fluorocarbon free) & manufacturing processes - electrolyzers & fuel cells
The Hydrogen Hoax article by Robert Zubrin in The New Atlantis
Resources on hydrogen plants
v
t
e
Emerging technologies
Technology
Fields
Agriculture
Agricultural robot
Closed ecological systems
Cultured meat
Genetically modified food
Precision agriculture
Vertical farming
Architecture
Arcology
Building printing
Contour crafting
D-Shape
Domed city
Biomedical
Artificial uterus
Ampakine
Brain transplant
Cryonics
Cryoprotectant
Cryopreservation
Vitrification
Suspended animation
De-extinction
Genetic engineering
Gene therapy
Head transplant
Isolated brain
Life extension
Strategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence
Nanomedicine
Nanosensors
Personalized medicine
Regenerative medicine
Stem-cell therapy
Tissue engineering
Robot-assisted surgery
Synthetic biology
Synthetic genomics
Virotherapy
Oncolytic virus
Tricorder
Whole genome sequencing
Displays
Next generation
FED
FLCD
iMoD
Laser
LPD
OLED
OLET
QD-LED
SED
TPD
TDEL
TMOS
Screenless
Bionic contact lens
Head-mounted display
Head-up display
Optical head-mounted display
Virtual retinal display
Other
Autostereoscopy
Flexible display
Holographic display
Computer-generated holography
Multi-primary color display
Ultra HD
Volumetric display
Electronics
Electronic nose
E-textiles
Flexible electronics
Molecular electronics
Nanoelectromechanical systems
Memristor
Spintronics
Thermal copper pillar bump
Energy
Production
Airborne wind turbine
Artificial photosynthesis
Biofuels
Carbon-neutral fuel
Concentrated solar power
Fusion power
Home fuel cell
Hydrogen economy
Methanol economy
Molten salt reactor
Nantenna
Photovoltaic pavement
Space-based solar power
Vortex engine
Storage
Beltway battery
Compressed air energy storage
Flywheel energy storage
Grid energy storage
Lithiumair battery
Molten salt battery
Nanowire battery
Research in lithium-ion batteries
Siliconair battery
Thermal energy storage
Ultracapacitor
Other
Smart grid
Wireless power
IT and
communications
Ambient intelligence
Internet of Things
Artificial intelligence
Applications of artificial intelligence
Progress in artificial intelligence
Machine translation
Machine vision
Semantic Web
Speech recognition
Atomtronics
Carbon nanotube field-effect transistor
Cybermethodology
Fourth-generation optical discs
3D optical data storage
Holographic data storage
GPGPU
Memory
CBRAM
FRAM
Millipede
MRAM
NRAM
PRAM
Racetrack memory
RRAM
SONOS
Optical computing
Quantum computing
Quantum cryptography
RFID
Chipless RFID
Software-defined radio
Three-dimensional integrated circuit
Manufacturing
3D printing
Claytronics
Molecular assembler
Utility fog
Materials science
Aerogel
Amorphous metal
Artificial muscle
Conductive polymer
Femtotechnology
Fullerene
Graphene
High-temperature superconductivity
High-temperature superfluidity
Linear acetylenic carbon
Metamaterials
Metamaterial cloaking
Metal foam
Multi-function structures
Nanotechnology
Carbon nanotubes
Molecular nanotechnology
Nanomaterials
Picotechnology
Programmable matter
Quantum dots
Silicene
Superalloy
Synthetic diamond
Military
Antimatter weapon
Caseless ammunition
Directed-energy weapon
Laser
Maser
Particle-beam weapon
Sonic weapon
Coilgun
Railgun
Plasma weapon
Pure fusion weapon
Stealth technology
Vortex ring gun
Neuroscience
Artificial brain
Blue Brain Project
Braincomputer interface
Electroencephalography
Mind uploading
Brain-reading
Neuroinformatics
Neuroprosthetics
Bionic eye
Brain implant
Exocortex
Retinal implant
Robotics
Domotics
Nanorobotics
Powered exoskeleton
Self-reconfiguring modular robot
Swarm robotics
Uncrewed vehicle
Space science
Launch
Fusion rocket
Non-rocket spacelaunch
Mass driver
Orbital ring
Space elevator
Space fountain
Space tether
Reusable launch system
Propulsion
Beam-powered propulsion
Ion thruster
Laser propulsion
Plasma propulsion engine
Helicon thruster
VASIMR
Project Orion
Nuclear pulse propulsion
Solar sail
Other
Interstellar travel
Propellant depot
Transport
Aerial
Adaptive compliant wing
Aeroscraft
Backpack helicopter
Delivery drone
Flying car
High-altitude platform
Jet pack
Pulse detonation engine
Scramjet
Spaceplane
Skylon
Supersonic transport
Land
Airless tire
Tweel
Alternative fuel vehicle
Hydrogen vehicle
Driverless car
Ground effect train
Maglev train
Personal rapid transit
Vactrain
ET3 Global Alliance
Hyperloop
Vehicular communication systems
Pipeline
Pneumatic transport
Automated vacuum collection
Foodtubes
Other
Anti-gravity
Cloak of invisibility
Digital scent technology
Force field
Plasma window
Immersive virtual reality
VirtuSphere
Magnetic refrigeration
Phased-array optics
Quantum technology
Quantum teleportation
Topics
Collingridge dilemma
Differential technological development
Ephemeralization
Exploratory engineering
Fictional technology
Proactionary principle
Technological change
Technological unemployment
Technological convergence
Technological evolution
Technological paradigm
Technology forecasting
Accelerating change
Moore's law
Technological singularity
Technology scouting
Technology readiness level
Technology roadmap
Transhumanism
Category
List
v
t
e
Alternative fuel vehicles
Compressed-air engine
Compressed air car
Compressed-air vehicle
Electric motor
Battery-electric locomotive
Battery electric vehicle
Cater MetroTrolley
Electric aircraft
Electric bicycle
Pedelec
Electric boat
Electric car
Electric platform truck
Electric vehicle
Electric motorcycles and scooters
Gyro flywheel locomotive
Hybrid electric vehicle
Hybrid train
Motorized bicycle
Neighborhood Electric Vehicle
Plug-in electric vehicle
Plug-in hybrid electric vehicle
Solar vehicle
Biofuel ICE
Alcohol fuel
Biodiesel
Biogas
Butanol fuel
Common ethanol fuel mixtures
E85
Ethanol fuel
Flexible-fuel vehicle
Methanol economy
Methanol fuel
Wood gas
Hydrogen
Fuel cell vehicle
Hydrogen economy
Hydrogen vehicle
Hydrogen internal combustion engine vehicle
Others
Autogas
Hybrid electric vehicle
Liquid nitrogen vehicle
Natural gas vehicle
Propane
Steam car
Multiple-fuel
Bi-fuel vehicle
Flexible-fuel vehicle
Hybrid vehicle
Multifuel
Plug-in hybrid
Documentaries
Who Killed the Electric Car?
What Is the Electric Car?
Revenge of the Electric Car
See also
Wind-powered land vehicle
Zero-emissions vehicle
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1180
Cached time: 20161120044913
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.816 seconds
Real time usage: 0.916 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 5661/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 276318/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 5011/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 8/500
Lua time usage: 0.421/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 8.23 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
716.414
1 - -total
51.53%
369.156
1 - Template:Reflist
27.83%
199.369
55 - Template:Cite_web
16.33%
117.007
8 - Template:Citation_needed
15.44%
110.602
9 - Template:Fix
8.96%
64.168
16 - Template:Cite_journal
8.89%
63.672
8 - Template:Delink
8.63%
61.809
7 - Template:Navbox
5.77%
41.313
18 - Template:Category_handler
5.31%
38.037
1 - Template:Emerging_technologies
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:906156-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120044912 and revision id 749916292
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hydrogen_economy&oldid=749916292"
Categories: Emerging technologiesHydrogen economyHidden categories: Pages containing cite templates with deprecated parametersCS1 maint: Multiple names: authors listCS1 Dutch-language sources (nl)CS1 errors: datesAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from September 2010Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2004All articles containing potentially dated statementsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2011Articles with unsourced statements from November 2016Articles with unsourced statements from February 2010Articles with unsourced statements from December 2011Articles with unsourced statements from October 2007Articles with unsourced statements from January 2016