Inductiongenerator
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}An induction generator or asynchronous generator is a type of alternating current (AC) electrical generator that uses the principles of induction motors to produce power. Induction generators operate by mechanically turning their rotors faster than synchronous speed. A regular AC asynchronous motor usually can be used as a generator, without any internal modifications. Induction generators are useful in applications such as mini hydro power plants, wind turbines, or in reducing high-pressure gas streams to lower pressure, because they can recover energy with relatively simple controls.
An induction generator usually draws its excitation power from an electrical grid; sometimes, however, they are self-excited by using phase-correcting capacitors. Because of this, induction generators cannot usually "black start" a de-energized distribution system.
Contents
1 Principle of operation
1.1 Excitation
1.2 Active power
1.3 Required capacitance
1.4 Torque vs. slip
1.5 Maximum pass-through current
2 Grid and stand-alone connections
3 Limitations of induction generators[1]
4 Use of induction generators
5 Example application
6 See also
7 Notes
8 References
9 External links
Principle of operation[edit]
An induction generator produces electrical power when its rotor is turned faster than the synchronous speed. For a typical four-pole motor (two pairs of poles on stator) operating on a 60Hz electrical grid, the synchronous speed is 1800 rotations per minute (rpm). The same four-pole motor operating on a 50Hz grid will have a synchronous speed of 1500RPM. The motor normally turns slightly slower than the synchronous speed; the difference between synchronous and operating speed is called "slip" and is usually expressed as per cent of the synchronous speed. For example, a motor operating at 1450RPM that has a synchronous speed of 1500RPM is running at a slip of +3.3%.
In normal motor operation, the stator flux rotation is faster than the rotor rotation. This causes the stator flux to induce rotor currents, which create a rotor flux with magnetic polarity opposite to stator. In this way, the rotor is dragged along behind stator flux, with the currents in the rotor induced at the slip frequency.
In generator operation, a prime mover (turbine or engine) drives the rotor above the synchronous speed (negative slip). The stator flux still induces currents in the rotor, but since the opposing rotor flux is now cutting the stator coils, an active current is produced in stator coils and the motor now operates as a generator, sending power back to the electrical grid.
Excitation[edit]
Equivalent circuit of induction generator
An induction machine requires externally supplied armature current. Because the rotor field always lags behind the stator field, the induction machine always "consumes" reactive power, regardless of whether it is operating as a generator or a motor.
A source of excitation current for magnetizing flux (reactive power) for the stator is still required, to induce rotor current. This can be supplied from the electrical grid or, once it starts producing power, from the generator itself.
An induction machine can be started by charging the capacitors, with a DC source, while the generator is turning typically at or above generating speeds. Once the DC source is removed the capacitors will provide the magnetization current required to begin producing voltage.
An induction machine that has recently been operating may also spontaneously produce voltage and current due to residual magnetism left in the core.
Active power[edit]
Active power delivered to the line is proportional to slip above the synchronous speed. Full rated power of the generator is reached at very small slip values (motor dependent, typically 3%). At synchronous speed of 1800rpm, generator will produce no power. When the driving speed is increased to 1860rpm (typical example), full output power is produced. If the prime mover is unable to produce enough power to fully drive the generator, speed will remain somewhere between 1800 and 1860 rpm range.
Required capacitance[edit]
A capacitor bank must supply reactive power to the motor when used in stand-alone mode. The reactive power supplied should be equal or greater than the reactive power that the machine normally draws when operating as a motor.
Torque vs. slip[edit]
The basic fundamental of induction generators is the conversion between mechanical energy to electrical energy. This requires an external torque applied to the rotor to turn it faster than the synchronous speed. However, indefinitely increasing torque doesn't lead to an indefinite increase in power generation. The rotating magnetic field torque excited from the armature works to counter the motion of the rotor and prevent over speed because of induced motion in the opposite direction. As the speed of the motor increases the counter torque reaches a max value of torque (breakdown torque) that it can operate until before the operating conditions become unstable. Ideally, induction generators work best in the stable region between the no-load condition and maximum torque region.
Maximum pass-through current[edit]
In practice and without taking this notion into account, many users unsuccessfully apply the principles to the actual deployment.
It's not in popular belief; that in almost every case, under the same active grid voltage, the power that the generator produces is greater than the power it consumes when it is at the motor,fully loaded state; its rated power. Sometimes the differences are in multiple folds. Higher the power means higher the amperage.
For prolong operation, and implied in its guaranteed, each motor has its maximum pass-through current. This amperage value; the current density; is derived from the maximum pass-through current property of the internal copper magnet wire and the combined configuration of their connections. Without opening up the unit to examine the internal setting of the copper wires, a division of the wattage of its rated power by its rated voltage can give users some senses of how much that value is.
Therefore, claims of making a unit generates more power than its rated should get a closer examination.
Grid and stand-alone connections[edit]
Typical connections when used as a standalone generator
In induction generators, the reactive power required to establish the air gap magnetic flux is provided by a capacitor bank connected to the machine in case of stand-alone system and in case of grid connection it draws reactive power from the grid to maintain its air gap flux. For a grid-connected system, frequency and voltage at the machine will be dictated by the electric grid, since it is very small compared to the whole system. For stand-alone systems, frequency and voltage are complex function of machine parameters, capacitance used for excitation, and load value and type.
Limitations of induction generators[1][edit]
An induction generator capacitor system can generate generate sufficient reactive power to operate on its own. When the load current exceeds that capability of the generator supply both the magnetization reactive power, and the load power. The generator will immediately cease to produce power. The load must be removed and the induction generator restarted with either a DC source, or if present residual magnetism in the sore.
Use of induction generators[edit]
Induction generators are often used in wind turbines and some micro hydro installations due to their ability to produce useful power at varying rotor speeds. Induction generators are mechanically and electrically simpler than other generator types. They are also more rugged, requiring no brushes or commutators.
Induction generators are particularly suitable for wind generating stations as in this case speed is always a variable factor. Unlike synchronous motors, induction generators are load-dependent and cannot be used alone for grid frequency control.
Example application[edit]
As an example, consider the use of a 10hp, 1760r/min, 440V, three-phase induction motor as an asynchronous generator. The full-load current of the motor is 10A and the full-load power factor is 0.8.
Required capacitance per phase if capacitors are connected in delta:
Apparent power S = 3 E I = 1.73  440  10 = 7612 VA
Active power P = S cos  = 7612  0.8 = 6090 W
Reactive power Q =
S
2
 
P
2
{\displaystyle {\sqrt {S^{2}-P^{2}}}}
= 4567 VAR
For a machine to run as an asynchronous generator, capacitor bank must supply minimum 4567 / 3 phases = 1523 VAR per phase. Voltage per capacitor is 440V because capacitors are connected in delta.
Capacitive current Ic = Q/E = 1523/440 = 3.46 A
Capacitive reactance per phase Xc = E/Ic = 127 
Minimum capacitance per phase:
C = 1 / (2**f*Xc) = 1 / (2 * 3.141 * 60 * 127) = 21 microfarads.
If the load also absorbs reactive power, capacitor bank must be increased in size to compensate.
Prime mover speed should be used to generate frequency of 60Hz:
Typically, slip should be similar to full-load value when machine is running as motor, but negative (generator operation):
if Ns = 1800, one can choose N=Ns+40 rpm
Required prime mover speed N = 1800 + 40 = 1840 rpm.
See also[edit]
Electrical generator
Notes[edit]
^ Huassain, Ashfaq. Electric Machines. Dhanpat Rai and Co. p.411.
References[edit]
Electrical Machines, Drives, and Power Systems, 4th edition, Theodore Wildi, Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-082460-7, pages 311314.
External links[edit]
Testing of stand-alone and grid connected asynchronous generator
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
This article may be expanded with text translated from the corresponding article in German.
(August 2016) Click [show] for important translation instructions.
View a machine-translated version of the German article.
Google's machine translation is a useful starting point for translations, but translators must revise errors as necessary and confirm that the translation is accurate, rather than simply copy-pasting machine-translated text into the English Wikipedia.
Do not translate text that appears unreliable or low-quality. If possible, verify the text with references provided in the foreign-language article.
After translating, {{Translated|de|Asynchrongenerator}} must be added to the talk page to ensure copyright compliance.
For more guidance, see Wikipedia:Translation.
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1286
Cached time: 20161118224731
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.116 seconds
Real time usage: 0.192 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1054/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 41153/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 2689/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 15/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.037/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.78 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
121.521
1 - -total
40.38%
49.074
1 - Template:Expand_German
39.67%
48.203
1 - Template:Reflist
37.35%
45.392
1 - Template:Expand_language
36.50%
44.361
1 - Template:Cite_book
24.04%
29.218
1 - Template:Ambox
20.91%
25.407
2 - Template:Navbox
19.80%
24.064
1 - Template:Electricity_generation
8.30%
10.081
1 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
7.64%
9.284
1 - Template:DMCA
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:9331066-0!*!0!!en!4!*!math=5 and timestamp 20161118224730 and revision id 749915203
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Induction_generator&oldid=749915203"
Categories: Electrical generatorsInduction motorsHidden categories: Articles to be expanded from August 2016All articles to be expandedArticles needing translation from German WikipediaPages using ISBN magic links