Industrialecology
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Industrial ecology (IE) is the study of material and energy flows through industrial systems. The global industrial economy can be modelled as a network of industrial processes that extract resources from the Earth and transform those resources into commodities which can be bought and sold to meet the needs of humanity. Industrial ecology seeks to quantify the material flows and document the industrial processes that make modern society function. Industrial ecologists are often concerned with the impacts that industrial activities have on the environment, with use of the planet's supply of natural resources, and with problems of waste disposal. Industrial ecology is a young but growing multidisciplinary field of research which combines aspects of engineering, economics, sociology, toxicology and the natural sciences.
Industrial ecology has been defined as a "systems-based, multidisciplinary discourse that seeks to understand emergent behaviour of complex integrated human/natural systems".[1] The field approaches issues of sustainability by examining problems from multiple perspectives, usually involving aspects of sociology, the environment, economy and technology. The name comes from the idea that the analogy of natural systems should be used as an aid in understanding how to design sustainable industrial systems.[2]
Contents
1 Overview
2 History
3 Principles
4 Tools
5 Future directions
6 See also
7 References
8 Further reading
9 External links
Overview[edit]
Example of Industrial Symbiosis. Waste steam from a waste incinerator (right) is piped to an ethanol plant (left) where it is used as in input to their production process.
Industrial ecology is concerned with the shifting of industrial process from linear (open loop) systems, in which resource and capital investments move through the system to become waste, to a closed loop system where wastes can become inputs for new processes.
Much of the research focuses on the following areas:[3]
material and energy flow studies ("industrial metabolism")
dematerialization and decarbonization
technological change and the environment
life-cycle planning, design and assessment
design for the environment ("eco-design")
extended producer responsibility ("product stewardship")
eco-industrial parks ("industrial symbiosis")
product-oriented environmental policy
eco-efficiency
Industrial ecology seeks to understand the way in which industrial systems (for example a factory, an ecoregion, or national or global economy) interact with the biosphere. Natural ecosystems provide a metaphor for understanding how different parts of industrial systems interact with one another, in an "ecosystem" based on resources and infrastructural capital rather than on natural capital. It seeks to exploit the idea that natural systems do not have waste in them to inspire sustainable design.
Along with more general energy conservation and material conservation goals, and redefining commodity markets and product stewardship relations strictly as a service economy, industrial ecology is one of the four objectives of Natural Capitalism. This strategy discourages forms of amoral purchasing arising from ignorance of what goes on at a distance and implies a political economy that values natural capital highly and relies on more instructional capital to design and maintain each unique industrial ecology.
History[edit]
View of Kalundborg Eco-industrial Park
Main article: History of industrial ecology
Industrial ecology was popularized in 1989 in a Scientific American article by Robert Frosch and Nicholas E. Gallopoulos. Frosch and Gallopoulos' vision was "why would not our industrial system behave like an ecosystem, where the wastes of a species may be resource to another species? Why would not the outputs of an industry be the inputs of another, thus reducing use of raw materials, pollution, and saving on waste treatment?"[2] A notable example resides in a Danish industrial park in the city of Kalundborg. Here several linkages of byproducts and waste heat can be found between numerous entities such as a large power plant, an oil refinery, a pharmaceutical plant, a plasterboard factory, an enzyme manufacturer, a waste company and the city itself.[4]
The scientific field Industrial Ecology has grown quickly in recent years. The Journal of Industrial Ecology (since 1997), the International Society for Industrial Ecology (since 2001), and the journal Progress in Industrial Ecology (since 2004) give Industrial Ecology a strong and dynamic position in the international scientific community. Industrial Ecology principles are also emerging in various policy realms such as the concept of the Circular Economy that is being promoted in China. Although the definition of the Circular Economy has yet to be formalized, generally the focus is on strategies such as creating a circular flow of materials, and cascading energy flows. An example of this would be using waste heat from one process to run another process that requires a lower temperature. The hope is that strategy such as this will create a more efficient economy with fewer pollutants and other unwanted by-products.[5]
Principles[edit]
One of the central principles of Industrial Ecology is the view that societal and technological systems are bounded within the biosphere, and do not exist outside of it. Ecology is used as a metaphor due to the observation that natural systems reuse materials and have a largely closed loop cycling of nutrients. Industrial Ecology approaches problems with the hypothesis that by using similar principles as natural systems, industrial systems can be improved to reduce their impact on the natural environment as well. The table shows the general metaphor.
Biosphere
Technosphere
Environment
Organism
Natural Product
Natural Selection
Ecosystem
Ecological Niche
Anabolism / Catabolism
Mutation and Selection
Succession
Adaptation
Food Web
Market
Company
Industrial Product
Competition
Eco-Industrial Park
Market Niche
Manufacturing / Waste Management
Design for Environment
Economic Growth
Innovation
Product Life Cycle
The Kalundborg industrial park is located in Denmark. This industrial park is special because companies reuse each other's waste (which then becomes by-products). For example, the Energy E2 Asns Power Station produces gypsum as a by-product of the electricity generation process; this gypsum becomes a resource for the BPB Gyproc A/S which produces plasterboards.[4] This is one example of a system inspired by the biosphere-technosphere metaphor: in ecosystems, the waste from one organism is used as inputs to other organisms; in industrial systems, waste from a company is used as a resource by others.
Apart from the direct benefit of incorporating waste into the loop, the use of an eco-industrial park can be a means of making renewable energy generating plants, like Solar PV, more economical and environmentally friendly. In essence, this assists the growth of the renewable energy industry and the environmental benefits that come with replacing fossil-fuels.[6]
IE examines societal issues and their relationship with both technical systems and the environment. Through this holistic view , IE recognizes that solving problems must involve understanding the connections that exist between these systems, various aspects cannot be viewed in isolation. Often changes in one part of the overall system can propagate and cause changes in another part. Thus, you can only understand a problem if you look at its parts in relation to the whole. Based on this framework, IE looks at environmental issues with a systems thinking approach.
Take a city for instance. A city can be divided into commercial areas, residential areas, offices, services, infrastructures, and so forth. These are all sub-systems of the 'big city system. Problems can emerge in one sub-system, but the solution has to be global. Lets say the price of housing is rising dramatically because there is too high a demand for housing. One solution would be to build new houses, but this will lead to more people living in the city, leading to the need for more infrastructure like roads, schools, more supermarkets, etc. This system is a simplified interpretation of reality whose behaviors can be predicted.
In many cases, the systems IE deals with are complex systems. Complexity makes it difficult to understand the behavior of the system and may lead to rebound effects. Due to unforeseen behavioral change of users or consumers, a measure taken to improve environmental performance does not lead to any improvement or may even worsen the situation.
Moreover, life cycle thinking is also a very important principle in industrial ecology. It implies that all environmental impacts caused by a product, system, or project during its life cycle are taken into account. In this context life cycle includes
Raw material extraction
Material processing
Manufacture
Use
Maintenance
Disposal
The transport necessary between these stages is also taken into account as well as, if relevant, extra stages such as reuse, remanufacture, and recycle. Adopting a life cycle approach is essential to avoid shifting environmental impacts from one life cycle stage to another. This is commonly referred to as problem shifting. For instance, during the re-design of a product, one can choose to reduce its weight, thereby decreasing use of resources. However, it is possible that the lighter materials used in the new product will be more difficult to dispose of. The environmental impacts of the product gained during the extraction phase are shifted to the disposal phase. Overall environmental improvements are thus null.
A final and important principle of IE is its integrated approach or multidisciplinarity. IE takes into account three different disciplines: social sciences (including economics), technical sciences and environmental sciences. The challenge is to merge them into a single approach.
Tools[edit]
People
Planet
Profit
Modeling
Stakeholder analysis
Strength Weakness Opportunities Threats Analysis (SWOT Analysis)
Ecolabelling
ISO 14000
Environmental management system (EMS)
Integrated chain management (ICM)
Technology assessment
Environmental impact assessment (EIA)
Input-output analysis (IOA)
Life-cycle assessment (LCA)
Material flow analysis (MFA)
Substance flow analysis (SFA)
MET Matrix
Cost benefit analysis (CBA)
Full cost accounting (FCA)
Life cycle costing (LCC)
Stock and flow analysis
Agent based modeling
Future directions[edit]
The ecosystem metaphor popularized by Frosch and Gallopoulos[2] has been a valuable creative tool for helping researchers look for novel solutions to difficult problems. Recently, it has been pointed out that this metaphor is based largely on a model of classical ecology, and that advancements in understanding ecology based on complexity science have been made by researchers such as C. S. Holling, James J. Kay,[7] and further advanced in terms of contemporary ecology by others.[8][9][10][11] For industrial ecology, this may mean a shift from a more mechanistic view of systems, to one where sustainability is viewed as an emergent property of a complex system.[12][13] To explore this further, several researchers are working with agent based modeling techniques .[14][15]
Exergy analysis is performed in the field of industrial ecology to use energy more efficiently.[16] The term exergy was coined by Zoran Rant in 1956, but the concept was developed by J. Willard Gibbs. In recent decades, utilization of exergy has spread outside of physics and engineering to the fields of industrial ecology, ecological economics, systems ecology, and energetics.
See also[edit]
Business and economics portal
Ecology portal
Anthropogenic metabolism
Biomimicry
Circular economy
Cleaner production
Conservation (ethic)
Dematerialization (economics)
Ecodesign
Eco-efficiency
Eco-industrial park
Ecological economics
Ecological modernization
Energy accounting
Environmental economics
Environmental design
Evolutionary economics
Extended producer responsibility
Helix of sustainability
Industrial metabolism
Industrial symbiosis
Low-carbon economy
Life cycle assessment
Material flow accounting
Material flow analysis
Organigraph
Product stewardship
Reconciliation ecology
Social metabolism
Sustainable design
Urban metabolism
References[edit]
^ Allenby, Brad (2006). "The ontologies of industrial ecology" (PDF). Progress in Industrial Ecology. Inderscience Enterprises Ltd. 3 (1/2): 2840. doi:10.1504/PIE.2006.010039.
^ a b c Frosch, R.A.; Gallopoulos, N.E. (1989). "Strategies for Manufacturing". Scientific American. 261 (3): 144152. doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0989-144.
^ "International Society for Industrial Ecology | History". Retrieved January 8, 2009.
^ a b "The Kalundborg Centre for Industrial Symbiosis". Retrieved 2007. Check date values in: |access-date= (help)
^ Yuan, Z.; Bi, J.; Moriguichi, Y. "The Circular Economy: A New Development Strategy in China". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 10 (12): 48. doi:10.1162/108819806775545321.
^ Pearce, J. M. (2008). "Industrial Symbiosis for Very Large Scale Photovoltaic Manufacturing". Renewable Energy. 33 (5): 11011108. doi:10.1016/j.renene.2007.07.002.
^ Kay, J.J. (2002). Kibert, C.; Sendzimir, J.; Guy, B., eds. "On Complexity Theory, Exergy and Industrial Ecology: Some Implications for Construction Ecology" (PDF). Construction Ecology: Nature as the Basis for Green Buildings. Spon Press: 72107
^ Levine, S. H. (2003), Comparing Products and Production in Ecological and Industrial Systems. Journal of Industrial Ecology 7(2): 33-42.
^ Nielsen, Sren Nors (2007). "What has modern ecosystem theory to offer to cleaner production, industrial ecology and society? The views of an ecologist". Journal of Cleaner Production. 15 (17): 16391653. doi:10.1016/j.jclepro.2006.08.008.
^ Ashton, W. S. (2009), The Structure, Function, and Evolution of a Regional Industrial Ecosystem. Journal of Industrial Ecology 13(2): 228.
^ Jensen, P. D. (2011), Reinterpreting Industrial Ecology. Journal of Industrial Ecology 15(5):680-692.
^ Ehrenfeld, John (2004). "Can Industrial Ecology be the Science of Sustainability?". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 8 (12): 13. doi:10.1162/1088198041269364.
^ Ehrenfeld, John (2007). "Would Industrial Ecology Exist without Sustainability in the Background?". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 11 (1).
^ Axtell, R.L.; Andrews, C.J.; Small, M.J. (2002). "Agent-Based Modeling and Industrial Ecology". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 5 (4): 1013. doi:10.1162/10881980160084006.
^ Kraines, S.; Wallace, D. (2006). "Applying Agent-based Simulation in Industrial Ecology". Journal of Industrial Ecology. 10 (12): 1518. doi:10.1162/108819806775545376.
^ Wall, Gran. "Exergy - a useful concept"
Further reading[edit]
The industrial green game: implications for environmental design and management, Deanna J Richards (Ed), National Academy Press, Washington DC, USA, 1997, ISBN 0-309-05294-7
'Handbook of Input-Output Economics in Industrial Ecology', Sangwon Suh (Ed), Springer, 2009, ISBN 978-1-4020-6154-7
Boons, Frank (2012). "Freedom Versus Coercion in Industrial Ecology: Mind the Gap!". Econ Journal Watch. 9 (2): 100-111.
Desrochers, Pierre (2012). "Freedom Versus Coercion in Industrial Ecology: A Reply to Boons". Econ Journal Watch. 9 (2): 78-99.
External links[edit]
Articles and books
Industrial Ecology: An Introduction
Industrial Ecology
Industrial Symbiosis Timeline
Journal of Industrial Ecology (Yale University on behalf of the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies).
Industrial Ecology research & articles from The Program for the Human Environment, The Rockefeller University
Education
Erasmus Mundus Master's Programme in Industrial Ecology
v
t
e
Industrial ecology
Tools
Agent-based model
Costbenefit analysis
DPSIR
Ecolabel
Ecological footprint
Environmental impact assessment
Environmental management system
Economic Input-Output Life Cycle Assessment
Full cost accounting
Input-output model
Integrated chain management
ISO 14000
Life-cycle assessment
Material flow analysis
MET Matrix
Stakeholder analysis
Concepts
Circular economy
Cradle to cradle
Dematerialization
Eco-efficiency
Eco-industrial development
Eco-industrial park
Ecological modernization
Efficient energy use
Exergy
Extended producer responsibility
Industrial metabolism
Industrial symbiosis
Pollution prevention
Life-cycle assessment
Polluter pays principle
Precautionary principle
Rebound effect
Waste hierarchy
Waste minimisation
Related fields
Cleaner production
Design for environment
Earth systems engineering and management
Ecological economics
Ecological modernization
Environmental economics
Green chemistry
Sustainable development
Urban ecology
Urban metabolism
v
t
e
Systems Systems science
Systems
types
Anatomical
Art
Biological
Complex
Complex adaptive
Conceptual
Coupled humanenvironment
Database
Dynamical
Ecological
Economic
Formal
Global Positioning
Holarchic
Information
Legal
Measurement
Metric
Multi-agent
Nervous
Nonlinear
Operating
Physical
Planetary
Political
Sensory
Social
Star
Writing
Theoretical
fields
Chaos theory
Complex systems
Control theory
Cybernetics
Earth system science
Living systems
Sociotechnical system
Systemics
Urban metabolism
World-systems theory
Systems ...
analysis
biology
dynamics
ecology
engineering
neuroscience
psychology
science
theory
thinking
Systems
scientists
Russell L. Ackoff
William Ross Ashby
Bla H. Bnthy
Gregory Bateson
Anthony Stafford Beer
Richard E. Bellman
Ludwig von Bertalanffy
Kenneth E. Boulding
Murray Bowen
C. West Churchman
George Dantzig
Heinz von Foerster
Jay Wright Forrester
Charles A S Hall
James J. Kay
George Klir
Edward Norton Lorenz
Niklas Luhmann
Humberto Maturana
Margaret Mead
Donella Meadows
Mihajlo D. Mesarovic
James Grier Miller
Howard T. Odum
Talcott Parsons
Ilya Prigogine
Qian Xuesen
Anatol Rapoport
Peter Senge
Claude Shannon
Francisco Varela
Kevin Warwick
Norbert Wiener
Anthony Wilden
Categories
Systems
conceptual
physical
social
Systems science
Systems science portal
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
v
t
e
Recycling
Materials
Aluminium
Asphalt
Concrete
Copper
Cotton
Energy
Ferrous metals
Glass
Gypsum
Paper
Plastic
Refrigerant
Scrap
Timber
Vegetable oil
Water
Products
Appliances
Automotive oil
Batteries
Bottles
PET bottles
Computers
Fluorescent lamps
Lumber
Mobile phones
Paint
Ships
Textiles
Tires
Vehicles
Apparatus
Bins
Blue bags
Blue boxes
Codes
Collection
Materials recovery facility
Waste sorting
Countries
Brazil
Canada
Ireland
Japan
The Netherlands
Switzerland
United Kingdom
Northern Ireland
United States
Concepts
Dematerialization
Downcycling
Eco-industrial park
Ecodesign
Extended producer responsibility
Freecycling
Industrial ecology
Industrial metabolism
Land recycling
Material flow analysis
Precycling
Product stewardship
Recursive recycling
Recycling (ecological)
Resource recovery
Repurposing
Reuse
Upcycling
Urban lumberjacking
Waste hierarchy
Waste minimisation
Waste picking
Zero waste
See also
Cogeneration
Composting
Container deposit legislation
Dumpster diving
Ethical consumerism
Freeganism
Simple living
Waste
Waste-to-energy
Waste collection
Waste legislation
Waste management
Waste management concepts
Environment portal
Category
by country
by material
by product
organizations
Index
Commons
Environment portal
Sustainable development portal
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1244
Cached time: 20161119154039
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.244 seconds
Real time usage: 0.314 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1650/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 105909/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 3643/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.090/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.14 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
206.129
1 - -total
48.01%
98.953
1 - Template:Reflist
33.65%
69.360
12 - Template:Cite_journal
17.71%
36.505
5 - Template:Navbox
9.88%
20.374
1 - Template:Use_dmy_dates
8.50%
17.521
1 - Template:Systems
5.49%
11.319
1 - Template:Industrial_Ecology
4.48%
9.244
3 - Template:Cite_web
4.18%
8.625
1 - Template:Main
4.12%
8.499
1 - Template:DMCA
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:223898-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119154038 and revision id 746311415
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Industrial_ecology&oldid=746311415"
Categories: Industrial ecologyIndustrial engineeringSystems ecologyEnvironmental economicsGlobal business organizationHidden categories: CS1 errors: datesArticles with inconsistent citation formatsUse dmy dates from October 2016Pages using ISBN magic links