Loadcurve
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Load curve)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Typical seasonal loads of electric utilities in Eastern New England Division in 1919. United States Geological Survey, 1921. Image courtesy of the National Museum of American History from Powering a Generation of Change
In electrical engineering, a load profile is a graph of the variation in the electrical load versus time. A load profile will vary according to customer type (typical examples include residential, commercial and industrial), temperature and holiday seasons. Power producers use this information to plan how much electricity they will need to make available at any given time. Teletraffic engineering uses a similar load curve.
Contents
1 Power generation
2 Electricity distribution
3 Retail energy markets
4 Calculating and recording load profiles
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
Power generation[edit]
In a power system, a load curve or load profile is a chart illustrating the variation in demand/electrical load over a specific time. Generation companies use this information to plan how much power they will need to generate at any given time. A load duration curve is similar to a load curve. The information is the same but is presented in a different form. These curves are useful in the selection of generator units for supplying electricity.
Electricity distribution[edit]
In an electricity distribution grid, the load profile of electricity usage is important to the efficiency and reliability of power transmission. The power transformer or battery-to-grid are critical aspects of power distribution and sizing and modelling of batteries or transformers depends on the load profile.[1] The factory specification of transformers for the optimization of load losses versus no-load losses is dependent directly on the characteristics of the load profile that the transformer is expected to be subjected to.[2] This includes such characteristics as average load factor, diversity factor, utilization factor, and demand factor, which can all be calculated based on a given load profile.
On the power market so-called EFA blocks are used to specify the traded forward contract (on the delivery of a certain amount of electrical energy at a certain time.
Retail energy markets[edit]
In retail energy markets, supplier obligations are settled on an hourly or subhourly basis. For most customers, consumption is measured on a monthly basis, based on meter reading schedules. Load profiles are used to convert the monthly consumption data into estimates of hourly or subhourly consumption in order to determine the supplier obligation. For each hour, these estimates are aggregated for all customers of an energy supplier, and the aggregate amount is used in market settlement calculations as the total demand that must be covered by the supplier.
Calculating and recording load profiles[edit]
Load profiles can be determined by direct metering but on smaller devices such as distribution network transformers this is not routinely done. Instead a load profile can be inferred from customer billing or other data. An example of a practical calculation used by utilities is using a transformer's maximum demand reading and taking into account the known number of each customer type supplied by these transformers. This process is called load research.
Actual demand can be collected at strategic locations to perform more detailed load analysis; this is beneficial to both distribution and end-user customers looking for peak consumption. Smart grid meters, utility meter load profilers, data logging sub-meters and portable data loggers are designed to accomplish this task by recording readings at a set interval.
See also[edit]
Cost of electricity by source
Electricity generation
Electric power transmission
Electric power distribution
Load duration curve
Peak demand
Vehicle-to-grid
Unit commitment problem in electrical power production
References[edit]
^ "E.ON UK Plans Giant Battery to Store Wind Power". Planet Ark.
^ Eromon, David I. (2005), "The Dynamics of Transformer Purchasing in a Transformed Electric Market", The International Journal of Modern Engineering, 6 (1)
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Load profiles.
California Independent System Operator (Cal ISO) Predicted system capacity and demand with approximate current demand chart for today.
ACR Systems Inc. Energy demand portable data logger application.
Sensus
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
Authority control
GND: 4328972-1
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:4490333-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161113155423 and revision id 747532770
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Load_profile&oldid=747532770"
Categories: Electronic engineeringElectric powerElectrical systemsHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from April 2009All articles needing additional referencesCommons category with local link same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with GND identifiers