Marinefuelmanagement
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (August 2009) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Marine fuel management (MFM) is a multi-level approach to measuring, monitoring, and reporting fuel usage on a boat or ship, with the goals of reducing fuel usage, increasing operational efficiency, and improving fleet management oversight. MFM has grown in importance due to the rising costs of marine fuel[1] and increased governmental stresses to reduce the pollution generated by the world's fleet.[2][3][4]
Effective MFM requires that you know:
How much fuel is likely to be used
How much fuel is used
How the fuel was used
What things impact fuel usage
And by how much
Manual methods of measuring fuel usage, i.e. fuel tank dipping or sounding, typically do not tell how much fuel was used:
Traveling versus idling while in port or on station
By a specific engine (port versus starboard, for example)
Performing one job versus another
By crew A versus crew B on similar voyages
Without a clear understanding of how fuel is being used, there is no operational baseline from which to compare any kind of fuel conservation tool or activity. Without a baseline, there is no way to determine if conservation strategies are actually working.
MFM allows a fleet owner to track actual fuel consumption and relate fuel consumption to the work performed by the vessel. It supports the analysis of the effectiveness of operating strategies and helps develop a clearer understanding of how well a vessel uses its fuel.
Contents
1 MFM Main Functional Areas
1.1 Operational Performance
1.1.1 Fuel Monitoring
1.1.2 Inventory Control
1.1.3 Accounting
1.1.4 Throttle Management
1.2 Engineering and Maintenance Management
1.3 Management Oversight
2 See also
3 References
MFM Main Functional Areas[edit]
Operational Performance
Engineering and Maintenance Management
Management Oversight
Operational Performance[edit]
Operational performance includes those functional areas that impact the actual performance of a vessel or fleet. It includes fuel monitoring, inventory control, accounting, and engine throttle management.
Fuel Monitoring[edit]
Many marine vessels do not provide a way for captain and crew to measure and monitor fuel usage while underway. An optimum system onboard would include the ability to instantaneously monitor fuel burn rates from the wheelhouse. Individual engine and generator burn rates would be included, as well as fuel tank levels. This proactive monitoring would allow the crew to make decisions that positively impact fuel burn rates and efficiency.
Inventory Control[edit]
Fuel tanks need to have sensors installed that continuously monitor levels as fuel is taken onboard and burned by engines and generators. Periodically measuring tank levels using traditional manual methods is not accurate enough or timely, given the volumes of fuel that a marine engine can consume. Flow meters or gauges should be installed on transfer lines where fuel is taken onboard or off-loaded.
Accounting[edit]
In some parts of the world, fuel theft is an ongoing concern. Consequently, the accurate measurement of fuel taken on board coupled with the fuel actually consumed by engines and generators, is an important part of MFM. Flow meters should be installed in all fuel transfer lines so accurate fueling data can be captured. This data can then be compared with burn rates to determine whether fuel is being transferred off the vessel secretively.
Beyond fuel theft, many governmental jurisdictions require that all fuel spill incidents be recorded and reported to the local authorities. For example, the Marine Department of the Government of Hong Kong has specific guidelines for responding to accidental marine fuel spills[5] which reflect international requirements as promulgated by MARPOL, the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships.
Additionally, accounting for fuel usage at various points along a voyage provides the ability to tie fuel burn and its associated costs to shipping or container rates. For example, understanding how a vessel burns fuel on certain parts of a voyage, allows the more accurate bidding of container rates so profit margins stay healthy. Consequently, varying shipping rates based on documented fuel usage rates can allow a shipper to bid more aggressively.
A modern marine fuel management system would help in monitoring fuel usage, fuel transfer bunkering events and could be configured to sound an audible alarm when refilling fuel tanks might lead to a spill.
Throttle Management[edit]
Vessel operators have the most control over fuel usage by the way they use the engine(s) throttle. Wind, current, hull condition, load, and propulsion system health can all impact fuel burn both positively or negatively. Some operators choose to lower engine speed, and hence vessel speed, in an attempt to save fuel. However, engine RPM and vessel speed alone are not indicative of total fuel consumption, so arbitrarily lowering engine speed does not guarantee fuel savings. One must do the workflow calculations on how the propulsion system is operating under existing changing conditions and then tie that to fuel consumption. Simply lowering engine RPM does not guarantee an optimum vessel speed setting based on conditions. Some modern fuel management systems are designed to perform these calculations while underway and make recommendations to the vessel master.
Engineering and Maintenance Management[edit]
As with any capital asset, manufacturers typically include the standard maintenance practices and procedures needed to keep the asset functioning properly and within design specifications. In many cases, scheduled maintenance routines are based on laboratory or design parameters and do not necessarily represent the optimum. MFM supports proper maintenance on marine engines and generators by using the actual fuel burned or hours operated as the basis for performing maintenance routines. This condition-based maintenance program more accurately reflects the operating environment of the engine, but more importantly, reduces or eliminates unnecessary maintenance work.
Management Oversight[edit]
Management functions within MFM include:
Vessel performance analysis and overall fleet performance
Crew analysis with emphasis on applying lessons learned as best practice across the fleet
Key Performance Indicator (KPI) gathering across the fleet to include fuel burned per mile or per ton; throttle settings at various points on a voyage; engine RPMs and exhaust gas analysis; and vessel performance against hull conditions.
Fuel management from purchasing to transfers to usage
Chartered vessel fuel performance and adherence to contractual obligations
See also[edit]
Energy conservation
Fuel
Fuel price risk management
Fuel management systems
Fuel oil
Marine propulsion
MARPOL
Ship pollution
References[edit]
^ Bunkerworld
^ International Maritime Organization Adopts Program to Control Air Emissions from Oceangoing Vessels [1]
^ Clean Ports USA
^ UN-backed Efforts to Reduce Pollution
^ List of National Operational Contact Points
Platts Bunker Price, News & Charts Hub
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1181
Cached time: 20161118043120
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.044 seconds
Real time usage: 0.058 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 177/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 3973/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 11/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 6/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.014/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 870 KB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
35.191
1 - Template:More_footnotes
100.00%
35.191
1 - -total
61.01%
21.469
1 - Template:Ambox
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:22395049-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118043120 and revision id 633180207
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marine_fuel_management&oldid=633180207"
Categories: Shipping managementHidden categories: Articles lacking in-text citations from August 2009All articles lacking in-text citations