Marinecurrentpower
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Marine current power is a form of marine energy obtained from harnessing of the kinetic energy of marine currents, such as the Gulf stream. Although not widely used at present, marine current power has an important potential for future electricity generation. Marine currents are more predictable than wind and solar power.[1]
A 2006 report from United States Department of the Interior estimates that capturing just 1/1,000th of the available energy from the Gulf Stream would supply Florida with 35% of its electrical needs.[2]
Strong ocean currents are generated from a combination of temperature, wind, salinity, bathymetry, and the rotation of the earth. The sun acts as the primary driving force, causing winds and temperature differences. Because there are only small fluctuations in current speed and stream location with minimal changes in direction, ocean currents may be suitable locations for deploying energy extraction devices such as turbines.[3] Other effects such as regional differences in temperature and salinity and the Coriolis effect due to the rotation of the earth are also major inuences. The kinetic energy of marine currents can be converted in much the same way that a wind turbine extracts energy from the wind, using various types of open-ow rotors.[4]
The potential of electric power generation from marine tidal currents is enormous. There are several factors that make electricity generation from marine currents very appealing when compared to other renewables:
The high load factors resulting from the uid properties. The predictability of the resource, so that, unlike most of other renewables, the future availability of energy can be known and planned for.[4]
The potentially large resource that can be exploited with little environmental impact, thereby offering one of the least damaging methods for large-scale electricity generation.[5]
The feasibility of marine-current power installations to provide also base grid power, especially if two or more separate arrays with offset peak-ow periods are interconnected.
Contents
1 Early experiences
2 Alternative technologies in marine-current-power applications
3 Environmental effects
4 References
Early experiences[edit]
The possible use of marine currents as an energy resource began to draw attention in the mid-1970s after the rst oil crisis. In 1974 several conceptual designs were presented at the MacArthur Workshop on Energy, and in 1976 the British General Electric Co. undertook a partially government-funded study which concluded that marine current power deserved more detailed research. Soon after, the ITD-Group in UK implemented a research program involving a year performance testing of a 3-m hydroDarrieus rotor deployed at Juba on the White Nile.[citation needed]
The 1980s saw a number of small research projects to evaluate marine current power systems. The main countries where studies were carried out were the UK, Canada, and Japan. In 19921993 the Tidal Stream Energy Review identied specic sites in UK waters with suitable current speed to generate up to 58 TWh/year. It conrmed a total marine current power resource capable theoretically of meeting some 19% of the UK electricity demand.[citation needed]
In 19941995 the EU-JOULE CENEX project identified over 100 European sites ranging from 2 to 200km2of sea-bed area, many with power densities above 10 MW/km2. Both the UK Government and the EU have committed themselves to internationally negotiated agreements designed to combat global warming. In order to comply with such agreements, an increase in large-scale electricity generation from renewable resources will be required. Marine currents have the potential to supply a substantial share of future EU electricity needs.[4] The study of 106 possible sites for tidal turbines in the EU showed a total potential for power generation of about 50 TWh/year. If this resource is to be successfully utilized, the technology required could form the basis of a major new industry to produce clean power for the 21st century.[5]
Alternative technologies in marine-current-power applications[edit]
There are several types of open-ow devices that can be used in marine-current-power applications; many of them are modern descendants of the waterwheel or similar. However, the more technically sophisticated designs, derived from wind-power rotors, are the most likely to achieve enough cost-effectiveness and reliability to be practical in a massive marine-current-power future scenario. Even though there is no generally accepted term for these open-ow hydro-turbines, some sources refer to them as water-current turbines. There are two main types of water current turbines that might be considered: axial-ow horizontal-axis propellers (with both variable-pitch or xed-pitch), and cross-ow vertical-axis Darrieus rotors. Both rotor types may be combined with any of the three main methods for supporting water-current turbines: oating moored systems, sea-bed mounted systems, and intermediate systems. Sea-bed-mounted monopile structures constitute the rst-generation marine current power systems. They have the advantage of using existing (and reliable) engineering know-how, but they are limited to relatively shallow waters (about 20 to 40 m depth).[4]
Environmental effects[edit]
Ocean currents are instrumental in determining the climate in many regions around the world. While little is known about the effects of removing ocean current energy, the impacts of removing current energy on the farfield environment may be a significant environmental concern. The typical turbine issues with blade strike, entanglement of marine organisms, and acoustic effects still exists; however, these may be magnified due to the presence of more diverse populations of marine organisms using ocean currents for migration purposes. Locations can be further offshore and therefore require longer power cables that could affect the marine environment with electromagnetic output.[6]
The Tethys database provides access to scientific literature and general information on the potential environmental effects of ocean current energy.[7]
References[edit]
^ "Ocean currents". How Stuff Works. p.4. Retrieved 2 November 2010.
^ US Department of the Interior (May 2006). "Ocean Current Energy Potential on the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf" (pdf). Retrieved 2 November 2010.
^ "Tethys".
^ a b c d Ponta, F.L.; P.M. Jacovkis (April 2008). "Marine-current power generation by diffuser-augmented floating hydro-turbines". Renewable Energy. 33 (4): 665673. doi:10.1016/j.renene.2007.04.008. Retrieved 2011-04-12.
^ a b Bahaj, A.S.; L.E. Myers (November 2003). "Fundamentals applicable to the utilisation of marine current turbines for energy production" (Article). Renewable Energy. 28 (14): 22052211. doi:10.1016/S0960-1481(03)00103-4. Retrieved 2011-04-12.
^ "Tethys".
^ "Tethys".
v
t
e
Ocean energy
Wave power
Australia
New Zealand
Tidal power
New Zealand
Annapolis Royal Generating Station
Other
Marine current power
Offshore construction
Ocean thermal energy conversion
Osmotic power
Pelamis wave energy converter
SDE Sea Waves Power Plant
Wind power (offshore)
Wave farm
Ocean energy
Portals: Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:6988041-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161116073900 and revision id 693470208
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marine_current_power&oldid=693470208"
Categories: Marine energyHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2014