Marorka
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Marorka Ltd.
Type
private limited company
Industry
marine energy management, energy research
Founded
2002
Headquarters
Reykjavk, Iceland
Key people
Jn gst Thorsteinsson, founder
Kristinn A. Aspelund, Co-founder
Juergen Kudritzki, CEO
Products
Marorka Onboard (energy management system), Marorka Online (energy management dashboard)
Website
www.marorka.com
Marorka is a company which specializes in marine energy management. Marorkas head office is in Reykjavik, Iceland along with its servers and data storage infrastructure are supplied with electricity generated using 100% renewable energy resources  geothermal and hydroelectric. Marorka has international offices in Copenhagen, DK, Singapore, SG, Athens, GR and Dubai, AE. Marorka's mission is to deliver products and services to vessel owners and operators to save fuel, increase profitability and reduce harmful emissions.[1] The company was founded in June 2002 and resulted from the PhD thesis of Jn gst Thorsteinsson, Entrepreneur and founder.
Marorka has developed reliable, automated, on-board and online energy management systems for the international shipping industry. Marorkas products and services enable vessel operators to optimize fuel consumption by maximizing the energy efficiency of their vessels through the implementation of real-time monitoring and decision support, which are essential components of any operational optimization process. Marorkas commitment towards energy efficiency goes beyond the technological dimension  ships officers play a significant role in increasing energy efficiency and reducing emissions.
Jn gst Thorsteinsson at the award ceremony in Helsinki, October 2008.
Marorka's field of work:
consultancy for vessel building
operational analysis of ocean vessels
development of Marorka Onboard (energy management system), the marine energy management system
development of Marorka Online and Marorka Online SEEMP
Marorkas systems have been installed on board vessels of various types and sizes; Fishing vessels, Cargo vessels, Bulk carriers, LNG carriers, Cruise ships and Research vessels.
In 2008, Marorka received the Nordic Council Environment Prize. 37 companies were nominated for the award.[1]
Marorka has implemented a quality management system built on the ISO 9001:2008 standard, certified by Det Norske Veritas.
See also[edit]
Marine Energy Management
Fuel efficiency
Energy Engineering
References[edit]
^ a b Icelandic Company Earns Nordic Environmental Prize
Villemes, Katinka. Nature and Environment Prize 2008 goes to Iceland, norden.org, October 10, 2008
Wilson-Roberts, Guy. Green award for emissions-reducing technology, Sustainable Shipping News, October 28, 2008
World Fishing
External links[edit]
Marorka's website
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:18986312-0!*!0!!*!4!* and timestamp 20161030040848 and revision id 746166362
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marorka&oldid=746166362"
Categories: Companies of IcelandEnergy conservationSoftware companies of IcelandCompanies established in 20022002 establishments in IcelandCompanies based in ReykjavkHidden categories: Pages using infobox company with unsupported parameters