Microgeneration
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
A group of small-scale wind turbines providing electricity to a community in Dali, Yunnan, China
Part of a series about
Sustainable energy
Energy conservation
Cogeneration
Efficient energy use
Green building
Heat pump
Low-carbon power
Microgeneration
Passive solar building design
Renewable energy
Anaerobic digestion
Geothermal
Hydroelectricity
Solar
Tidal
Wind
Sustainable transport
Carbon-neutral fuel
Electric vehicle
Fossil fuel phase-out
Green vehicle
Plug-in hybrid
Sustainable development portal
Renewable energy portal
Environment portal
v
t
e
Microgeneration is the small-scale generation of heat and electric power by individuals, small businesses and communities to meet their own needs, as alternatives or supplements to traditional centralized grid-connected power. Although this may be motivated by practical considerations, such as unreliable grid power or long distance from the electrical grid, the term is mainly used currently for environmentally conscious approaches that aspire to zero or low-carbon footprints or cost reduction. It differs from micropower in that it is principally concerned with fixed power plants rather than for use with mobile devices.
Contents
1 Technologies and set-up
1.1 Power plant
1.2 Extra equipment needed besides the power plant
1.2.1 Energy storage apparatus
1.2.2 Safety equipment
1.2.3 Wind turbine specific
1.2.3.1 Vibro-wind power
1.3 Possible set-ups
2 Costs
2.1 Grid parity
3 Comparison with large-scale generation
4 Domestic self-sufficiency
4.1 Fuel
5 Government policy
5.1 Alberta, Canada
5.2 Poland
5.3 United States
5.4 United Kingdom
6 In popular culture
7 See also
8 References
9 External links
9.1 Systems' self-sufficiency parts
9.2 UK-related
9.3 Academic paper focusing on India
Technologies and set-up[edit]
Microgeneration technologies include small-scale wind turbines, micro hydro, solar PV systems, microbial fuel cells, ground source heat pumps, and micro combined heat and power installations.[1] These technologies are often combined to form a hybrid power solution that can offer superior performance and lower cost than a system based on one generator.[2]
Power plant[edit]
In addition to the electricity production plant (e.g. wind turbine and solar panel), infrastructure for energy storage and power conversion and a hook-up to the regular electricity grid is usually needed and/or foreseen. Although a hookup to the regular electricity grid is not essential, it helps to decrease costs by allowing financial recompensation schemes. In the developing world however, the start-up cost for this equipment is generally too high, thus leaving no choice but to opt for alternative set-ups.[3]
Extra equipment needed besides the power plant[edit]
A complete PV-solar system
The whole of the equipment required to set up a working system and for an off-the-grid generation and/or a hook up to the electricity grid herefore is termed a balance of system[4] and is composed of the following parts with PV-systems:
Energy storage apparatus[edit]
A major issue with off-grid solar and wind systems is that the power is often needed when the sun is not shining or when the wind is calm, this is generally not required for purely grid-connected systems:
a series of deep cycle, stationary or sealed maintenance free batteries (the most common solution) [5]
or other means of energy storage (e.g. hydrogen fuel cells, Flywheel energy storage, pumped-storage hydroelectricity, compressed air tanks, ...)[6]
a charge controller for charging the batteries or other energy storage
For converting DC battery power into AC as required for many appliances, or for feeding excess power into a commercial power grid:
an inverter or grid-interactive inverter. The whole is also sometimes referred to as "power conditioning equipment"
Safety equipment[edit]
groundings, transfer switches or isolator switches and surge protectors. The whole is also sometimes referred to as "safety equipment"
Usually, in microgeneration for homes in the developing world, prefabricated house-wiring systems (as wiring harnesses or prefabricated distribution units) are used instead .[7] Simplified house-wiring boxes and cables, known as wiring harnesses, can simply be bought and mounted into the building without requiring much knowledge about the wiring itself. As such, even people without technical expertise are able to install them. In addition, they are also comparatively cheap and offer safety advantages.[8]
battery meters (for charging rate and voltage), and meters for power consumption and electricity provision to the regular power grid
Small-scale (DIY) generation system
Wind turbine specific[edit]
With wind turbines, hydroelectric plants, ... the extra equipment needed [9][10][11][12] is more or less the same as with PV-systems (depending on the type of wind turbine used,[13] yet also include:
a manual disconnect switch
foundation for the tower
grounding system
shutoff and/or dummy-load devices for use in high wind when power generated exceeds current needs and storage system capacity.
Vibro-wind power[edit]
A new wind energy technology is being developed that converts energy from wind energy vibrations to electricity. This energy, called Vibro-Wind technology, can use winds of less strength than normal wind turbines, and can be placed in almost any location.
A prototype consisted of a panel mounted with oscillators made out of pieces of foam. The conversion from mechanical to electrical energy is done using a piezoelectric transducer, a device made of a ceramic or polymer that emits electrons when stressed. The building of this prototype was led by Francis Moon, professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering at Cornell University. Moon's work in Vibro-Wind Technology was funded by the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future at Cornell.[14]
Possible set-ups[edit]
Several microgeneration set-ups are possible. These are:
Off-the-grid set-ups which include:
Off-the grid set-ups without energy storage (e.g., battery, ...)
Off-the grid set-ups with energy storage (e.g., battery, ...)
Battery charging stations [15]
Grid-connected set-ups which include:
Grid connected with backup to power critical loads
Grid-connected set-ups without financial recompensation scheme
Grid-connected set-ups with net metering
Grid connected set-ups with net purchase and sale [16]
All set-ups mentioned can work either on a single power plant or a combination of power plants (in which case it is called a hybrid power system). For safety, grid-connected set-ups must automatically switch off or enter an "anti-islanding mode" when there is a failure of the mains power supply. For more about this, see the article on the condition of islanding.
Costs[edit]
Depending on the set-up chosen (financial recompensation scheme, power plant, extra equipment), prices may vary. According to Practical Action, microgeneration at home which uses the latest in cost saving-technology (wiring harnesses, ready boards, cheap DIY-power plants, e.g. DIY wind turbines) the household expenditure can be extremely low-cost. In fact, Practical Action mentions that many households in farming communities in the developing world spend less than $1 for electricity per month. .[17] However, if matters are handled less economically (using more commercial systems/approaches), costs will be dramatically higher. In most cases however, financial advantage will still be done using microgeneration on renewable power plants; often in the range of 50-90% [18] as local production has no electricity transportation losses on long distance power lines or energy losses from the Joule effect in transformers where in general 8-15% of the energy is lost.[19]
In the UK, the government offers both grants and feedback payments to help businesses, communities and private homes to install these technologies. Businesses can write the full cost of installation off against taxable profits whilst homeowners receive a flat rate grant or payments per kW h of electricity generated and paid back into the national grid. Community organisations can also receive up to 200,000 in grant funding.[20]
In the UK, the Microgeneration Certification Scheme provides approval for Microgeneration Installers and Products which is a mandatory requirement of funding schemes such as the Feed in Tariffs and Renewable Heat Incentive.
Grid parity[edit]
Grid parity (or socket parity) occurs when an alternative energy source can generate electricity at a levelized cost (LCoE) that is less than or equal to the price of purchasing power from the electricity grid. Reaching grid parity is considered to be the point at which an energy source becomes a contender for widespread development without subsidies or government support. It is widely believed that a wholesale shift in generation to these forms of energy will take place when they reach grid parity.
Grid parity has been reached in some locations with on-shore wind power around 2000, and with solar power it was achieved for the first time in Spain in 2013.[21][22][23]
Comparison with large-scale generation[edit]
microgeneration
large-scale generation
Notes
Other names
Distributed generation
Centralized generation
Waste Heat by-product
Can be used for heating purposes, thus greatly increasing efficiency and offsetting energy total costs. This method is known as micro combined heat and power (microCHP).
It is used in some privately owned industrial combined heat and power (CHP) installations. It's also use in large-scale applications where it's called district heating and uses the heat that is normally exhausted by inefficient powerplants.[24]
Transmission losses
Proximity to end user typically closer resulting in potentially fewer losses.
A significant proportion of electrical power is lost during transmission (approximately 8% in the United Kingdom according to BBC Radio 4 Today programme in March 2006).
Changes to Grid
reduces the transmission load, and thus reduces the need for grid upgrades
increases the power transmitted, and thus increases the need for grid upgrades
Grid failure event
Electricity may still be available to local area in many circumstances
Electricity may be not available due to grid
Consumer choices
May choose to purchase any legal system
May choose to purchase offerings of the power company
Reliability and Maintenance requirements
photovoltaics, Stirling engines, and certain other systems, are usually extremely reliable, and can generate electric power continuously for many thousands of hours with little or no maintenance. However, unreliable systems will incur additional maintenance labor and costs.
Managed by power company. Grid reliability varies with location.
Ability to meet needs
For wind and solar energy, the actual production is only a fraction of nameplate capacity.[25]
Fuel based systems are fully dispatchable
Solar panels are simple and reliable, they can provide a little electricity at a reasonable cost.
Commentators claim that householders who buy their electricity with green energy tariffs can reduce their carbon usage further than with microgeneration and at a lower cost.
Economy of scale
Necessitates mass production of generators which will create an associated environmental impact. Systems are less expensive when produced in quantity.
More economical given the larger scale of the generators.
Microgeneration can dynamically balance the supply and demand for electric power, by producing more power during periods of high demand and high grid prices, and less power during periods of low demand and low grid prices. This "hybridized grid" allows both microgeneration systems and large power plants to operate with greater energy efficiency and cost effectiveness than either could alone.
Domestic self-sufficiency[edit]
Further information: Autonomous building
See also: Earthship and Off-the-grid
Horizontal Axis Micro-Windmill in Lahore, 1000Watt Rated Output
Microgeneration can be integrated as part of a self-sufficient house and is typically complemented with other technologies such as domestic food production systems (permaculture and agroecosystem), rainwater harvesting, composting toilets or even complete greywater treatment systems. Domestic microgeneration technologies include: photovoltaic solar systems, small-scale wind turbines, micro combined heat and power installations, biodiesel and biogas.
A small Quietrevolution QR5 Gorlov type vertical axis wind turbine in Bristol, England. Measuring 3m in diameter and 5m high, it has a nameplate rating of 6.5 kW to the grid.
Private generation decentralizes the generation of electricity and may also centralize the pooling of surplus energy. While they have to be purchased, solar shingles and panels are both available. Capital cost is high, but saves in the long run. With appropriate power conversion, solar PV panels can run the same electric appliances as electricity from other sources.[26]
Passive solar water heating is another effective method of utilizing solar power. The simplest method is the solar (or a black plastic) bag. Set between 1 and 5 gallons out in the sun and allow to heat. Perfect for a quick warm shower.[27]
The breadbox heater can be constructed easily with recycled materials and basic building experience. Consisting of a single or array of black tanks mounted inside a sturdy box insulated on the bottom and sides. The lid, either horizontal or angled to catch the most sun, should be well sealed and of a transparent glazing material (glass, fiberglass, or high temp resistant molded plastic). Cold water enters the tank near the bottom, heats and rises to the top where it is piped back into the home.[27]
Ground source heat pumps exploit stable ground temperatures by benefiting from the thermal energy storage capacity of the ground. Typically ground source heat pumps have a high initial cost and are difficult to install by the average homeowner. They use electric motors to transfer heat from the ground with a high level of efficiency. The electricity may come from renewable sources or from external non-renewable sources.
Fuel[edit]
Biodiesel is an alternative fuel that can power diesel engines and can be used for domestic heating. Numerous forms of biomass, including soybeans, peanuts, and algae (which has the highest yield), can be used to make biodiesel. Recycled vegetable oil (from restaurants) can also be converted into biodiesel.
Biogas is another alternative fuel, created from the waste product of animals. Though less practical for most homes, a farm environment provides a perfect place to implement the process. By mixing the waste and water in a tank with space left for air, methane produces naturally in the airspace. This methane can be piped out and burned, and used for a cookfire.
The biogaspro digester provides an easily installed digester suitable for small farms or even large homes. Groups of homes can possible group together to use a digester [28]
Government policy[edit]
Policymakers were accustomed to an energy system based on big, centralised projects like nuclear or gas-fired power stations. A change of mindsets and incentives are bringing microgeneration into the mainstream. Planning regulations may also require streamlining to facilitate the retrofitting of microgenerating facilities onto homes and buildings.
Most of developed countries, including Canada (Alberta), the United Kingdom, Germany, Poland, Israel[29] and USA have laws allowing microgenerated electricity to be sold into the national grid.
Alberta, Canada[edit]
In January 2009, the Government of Albertas Micro-Generation Regulation came into effect, setting rules that allow Albertans to generate their own environmentally friendly electricity and receive credit for any power they send into the electricity grid.
Poland[edit]
In December 2014, the Polish government will vote on a bill which calls for microgeneration, as well as large scale wind farms in the Baltic Sea as a solution to cut back on co2 emissions from the country's coal plants as well as to reduce Polish dependence on Russian gas. Under the terms of the new bill, individuals and small businesses which generate up to 40kW of 'green' energy will receive 100% of market price for any electricity they feed back into the grid, and businesses who set up large-scale offshore wind farms in the Baltic will be eligible for subsidization by the state. Costs of implementing these new policies will be offset by the creation of a new tax on non-sustainable energy use.[30]
United States[edit]
The United States has inconsistent energy generation policies across its 50 states. State energy policies and laws may vary significantly with location. Some states have imposed requirements on utilities that a certain percentage of total power generation be from renewable sources. For this purpose, renewable sources include wind, hydroelectric, and solar power whether from large or microgeneration projects. Further, in some areas transferrable "renewable source energy" credits are needed by power companies to meet these mandates. As a result, in some portions of the United States, power companies will pay a portion of the cost of renewable source microgeneration projects in their service areas. These rebates are in addition to any Federal or State renewable-energy income-tax credits that may be applicable. In other areas, such rebates may differ or may not be available.
United Kingdom[edit]
The UK Government published its Microgeneration Strategy[31] in March 2006, although it was seen as a disappointment by many commentators.[32] In contrast, the Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006 has been viewed as a positive step.[33] To replace earlier schemes, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) launched the Low Carbon Buildings Programme in April 2006, which provided grants to individuals, communities and businesses wishing to invest in microgenerating technologies. These schemes have been replaced in turn by new proposals from the Department for Energy and Climate Change (DECC) for clean energy cashback via Feed-In Tariffs [34] for generating electricity from April 2010 and the Renewable Heat Incentive [35] for generating renewable heat from 28 November 2011.
Feed-In Tariffs are intended to incentivise small-scale (less than 5MW), low-carbon electricity generation. These feed-in tariffs work alongside the Renewables Obligation (RO), which will remain the primary mechanism to incentivise deployment of large-scale renewable electricity generation. The Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) in intended to incentivise the generation of heat from renewable sources. They also currently offer up to 21p per kWh from December 2011 in the Tariff for photovoltaics plus another 3p for the Export Tariff - an overall figure which could see a household earning back double what they currently pay for their electricity.[36]
On 31 October 2011, the government announced a sudden cut in the feed-in tariff from 43.3p/kWh to 21p/kWh with the new tariff to apply to all new solar PV installations with an eligibility date on or after 12 December 2011.[37]
Prominent British politicians who have announced they are fitting microgenerating facilities to their homes include the Conservative party leader, David Cameron, and the Labour Science Minister, Malcolm Wicks. These plans included small domestic sized wind turbines. Cameron, before becoming Prime Minister in the 2010 general elections, had been asked during an interview on BBC Ones The Politics Show on October 29, 2006, if he would do the same should he get to 10 Downing Street. If theyd let me, yes, he replied.[38]
In the December 2006 Pre-Budget Report[39] the government announced that the sale of surplus electricity from installations designed for personal use, would not be subject to Income Tax. Legislation to this effect has been included in the Finance Bill 2007.[40]
In popular culture[edit]
Several movies and TV shows such as The Mosquito Coast, Jericho, The Time Machine and Beverly Hills Family Robinson have done a great deal in raising interest in microgeneration among the general public. Websites such as Instructables and Practical Action propose DIY solutions that can lower the cost of microgeneration, thus increasing its popularity. Specialised magazines such as OtherPower and Home Power also provide practical advice and guidance.[41]
See also[edit]
Energy portal
Renewable energy portal
Sustainable development portal
Technology portal
Appropriate technology; includes a list of technology usable to set up microgeneration
Autonomous building
Deep cycle battery (the type of batteries to be used in domestic, off-grid systems)
Distributed generation
Domestic energy consumption (offers calculations to set up microgeneration-plants)
Emergency power system
Home fuel cell
Hydrogen station
MicroFIT
Photovoltaic array
Small hydro
Small-scale wind power
References[edit]
^ "On-site renewable energy - Renewable Energy - Reusable Energy - The Merton Rule - Pros Cons Renewable Energy Options - Microgeneration - Green Energy Solutions - Ground Source Heat Pumps - Green Energy Options".
^ Ginn, Claire. "Energy pick n' mix: are hybrid systems the next big thing?". www.csiro.au. CSIRO. Retrieved 9 September 2016.
^ Practical Action - Energy for rural communities
^ "Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy - Department of Energy".
^ Practical Action - Energy for rural communities (includes short description batteries)
^ "Welcome to The Sietch - Projects Make Your Own Hydrogen".
^ Mentioning of prefabricated house-wiring and its systems
^ Benefits of wiring harnasses
^ "Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy - Department of Energy".
^ "Shop Gaiam for yoga, fitness, meditation, active sitting, and wellness products".
^ Extra equipment needed with wind turbines (EnergyAlternatives)
^ "Chispito Information - VelaCreations".
^ Schematic showing certain components as controllers built into the wind turbine itself
^ Ju, Anne (25 May 2010). "Students harness vibrations from wind for electricity". Cornell Chronicle. Retrieved 20 July 2011.
^ Battery charging stations explained
^ "Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy - Department of Energy".
^ Households reducing their energy ependitures to $1 a month using renewable microgeneration
^ "Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy - Department of Energy".
^ "How big are Power line losses? - Schneider Electric Blog". 25 March 2013.
^ UK Grant Funding information
^ Kelly-Detwiler, Peter. "Solar Grid Parity Comes to Spain".
^ "Spain Achieves Grid Parity for Solar Power - OilPrice.com".
^ http://www.conergy.com/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid-136/281_read-831/
^ Milieu Centraal, 29 April 2009 -- Stadsverwarming en blokverwarming
^ "Green Building magazine has moved to GreenBuilding.co.uk".
^ Fritsch, Al, and Paul Gallimore. Healing Appalachia: Sustainable Living Through Appropriate Technology. Lexington, KY. The UP of Kentucky, 2007.
^ a b "How to Build a Passive Solar Water Heater".
^ "Renewable Energy Solutions - Living Lightly".
^ State of Israel Public Utilities Authority Decision #216 (Hebrew)
^ "Government revises sustainable energy bill".
^ UK Department of Trade and Industry Microgeneration Strategy
^ Home power plan 'disappointment' BBC News report on the UK Department of Trade and Industry Microgeneration Strategy
^ Sustainable energy groups welcome parliamentary initiative to reduce climate change emissions, article by micropower on the Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006
^ Clean energy cashback from Feed-In Tariffs
^ Renewable Heat Incentive
^ "Export tariffs - FI Tariffs".
^ "Barker: Boom and bust for solar must be avoided - Announcements". decc.gov.uk.
^ The Times (October 30, 2006). Cameron: I'd have a No 10 wind turbine. Retrieved 2010-05-15.
^ Pre-Budget Report 2006, Section 7.31.
^ Office of Public Sector Information; Finance Act 2007 Chapter 11, Part 2, Environment. Retrieved 2010-05-14.
^ OtherPower and Home Power as popular diy microgeneration magazines
External links[edit]
Systems' self-sufficiency parts[edit]
Microgeneration.com - Basic information on setting up microgeneration at home
Information on precise domestic power consumption calculations to create partial/or completely off-grid systems
Practical action's info on setting up microgeneration at home
Hope Farm Information on Wind Power - Page on securing incentives, building, and monitoring power generated by small-scale wind on Upstate NY farm.
Turbine-Free Wind Power - The New York Times
Micro-Generation Regulation
UK-related[edit]
nogrid.co.uk
http://www.berr.gov.uk/energy/sources
Renewable Heat Incentive
Microgeneration Certification Scheme Information Installers
Ofgem information on Feed-in Tariffs
Micropower Council - In the UK they act as the industry's main contact point for government, opinion formers, the press, and the public
Building for a Future magazine: Microgeneration - Good or bad?
Academic paper focusing on India[edit]
Kumar, A., Shankar, R., Momaya, K. and Gupte, S. (2010), The Market for Wireless Electricity: the Case of India, Energy Policy, 38(3), 15371547
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1255
Cached time: 20161120182349
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.216 seconds
Real time usage: 0.270 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1608/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 59517/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 926/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 8/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.079/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.43 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
191.562
1 - -total
53.16%
101.828
1 - Template:Reflist
37.62%
72.065
18 - Template:Cite_web
17.20%
32.948
1 - Template:Sustainable_energy
16.42%
31.452
1 - Template:Sidebar
11.51%
22.046
2 - Template:Navbox
10.89%
20.868
1 - Template:Electricity_generation
5.78%
11.064
3 - Template:Portal-inline
5.36%
10.259
1 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
4.21%
8.067
1 - Template:Further
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:3263679-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120182349 and revision id 738603644
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Microgeneration&oldid=738603644"
Categories: Energy developmentEnergy policyEnergy economicsDistributed generationSustainable energyEnergy sources