Municipalsolidwaste
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}"Garbage", "Rubbish", and "Municipal waste" redirect here. For other uses, see Garbage (disambiguation), Rubbish (disambiguation), and Municipal waste (disambiguation).
The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (March 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Public infrastructure
Grand Coulee Dam
Assets and facilities
Airports
Bridges
Broadband
Canals
Critical infrastructure
Dams
Electricity
Energy
Hazardous waste
Hospitals
Irrigation schemes
Levees
Lighthouses
Parks
Ports
Mass transit
Public housing
State schools
Public spaces
Rail
Roads
Sewage
Solid waste
Telecommunication
Utilities
Water supply
Wastewater
Concepts
Asset management
Appropriation
Lindahl tax
Build-Operate-Transfer
Design-Build
Earmark
Fixed cost
Engineering contracts
Externality
Government debt
Life cycle assessment
Maintenance
Monopoly
Property tax
Public-private partnership
Public capital
Public finance
Public good
Public sector
Renovation
Replacement (upgrade)
Spillover effect
Supply chain
Taxation
Issues and ideas
Air traffic control
Brownfield
Carbon footprint
Containerization
Congestion pricing
Ecotax
Ethanol fuel
Fuel tax
Groundwater
High-speed rail
Hybrid vehicles
Land-use planning
Mobile data terminal
Pork barrel
Rapid bus transit
Recycling
Renewables
Reverse osmosis
Smart grid
Smart growth
Stormwater
Urban sprawl
Traffic congestion
Transit-oriented development
Vehicle efficiency
Waste-to-energy
Weatherization
Wireless technology
Fields of study
Architecture
Civil
Electrical
Mechanical engineering
Public economics
Public policy
Urban planning
Examples
Akashi Kaiky Bridge
Trans-Alaska pipeline
Autobahn
Brazilian energy independence
Brooklyn Bridge
Channel Tunnel
Chicago wastewater
China's high-speed rail
Curtiba rapid bus transit
Danish wind-power
British offshore wind-power
Nuclear power in France
Solar power in Germany
Hoover Dam
Hong Kong Int'l Airport
Intercity-Express
Interstate highways
Jamnagar Refinery
Kansai Int'l Airport
Panama Canal
Port of Shanghai
San Francisco Bay Bridge
Three Gorges Dam
Shinkansen
Spanish high-speed rail
French TGV rail
Spanish autovias and autopistas
Transcontinental Railroad
Power transmission in the USA
Infrastructure portal
v
t
e
Municipal solid waste (MSW), commonly known as trash or garbage in the United States and as refuse or rubbish in Britain, is a waste type consisting of everyday items that are discarded by the public. "Garbage" can also refer specifically to food waste, as in a garbage disposal; the two are sometimes collected separately.
Contents
1 Composition
2 Components of solid waste management
2.1 Collection
2.2 Waste handling and separation, storage and processing at the source
2.3 Segregation and processing and transformation of solid wastes
2.4 Transfer and transport
2.5 Disposal
2.6 Reusing
2.7 Landfills
2.8 Energy generation
3 See also
4 References
5 Further reading
6 External links
Composition[edit]
The composition of municipal solid waste varies greatly from municipality to municipality (country to country) and changes significantly with time. In municipalities (countries) which have a well developed waste recycling system, the waste stream consists mainly of intractable wastes such as plastic film, and unrecyclable packaging materials. At the start of the 20th century, the majority of domestic waste (53%) in the UK consisted of coal ash from open fires.[1] In developed municipalities (countries) without significant recycling activity it predominantly includes food wastes, market wastes, yard wastes, plastic containers and product packaging materials, and other miscellaneous solid wastes from residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial sources.[2] Most definitions of municipal solid waste do not include industrial wastes, agricultural wastes, medical waste, radioactive waste or sewage sludge.[3] Waste collection is performed by the municipality within a given area. The term residual waste relates to waste left from household sources containing materials that have not been separated out or sent for reprocessing.[4] Waste can be classified in several ways but the following list represents a typical classification:
Biodegradable waste: food and kitchen waste, green waste, paper (most can be recycled although some difficult to compost plant material may be excluded [5])
Recyclable materials: paper, cardboard, glass, bottles, jars, tin cans, aluminum cans, aluminum foil, metals, certain plastics, fabrics, clothes, tires, batteries, etc.
Inert waste: construction and demolition waste, dirt, rocks, debris
Electrical and electronic waste (WEEE) - electrical appliances, light bulbs, washing machines, TVs, computers, screens, mobile phones, alarm clocks, watches, etc.
Composite wastes: waste clothing, Tetra Packs, waste plastics such as toys
Hazardous waste including most paints, chemicals, tires, batteries, light bulbs, electrical appliances, fluorescent lamps, aerosol spray cans, and fertilizers
Toxic waste including pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides
Biomedical waste, expired pharmaceutical drugs, etc.
Components of solid waste management[edit]
Bins to collect paper, aluminium, glass, PET bottles and incinerable waste.
The municipal solid waste industry has four components: recycling, composting, disposal, and waste-to-energy via incineration.[6] There is no single approach that can be applied to the management of all waste streams, therefore the Environmental Protection Agency, federal agency of the United States of America, developed a hierarchy ranking strategy for municipal solid waste.[7] The Waste Management Hierarchy is made up of four levels ordered from most preferred to least preferred methods based on their environmental soundness: Source reduction and reuse; recycling or composting; energy recovery; treatment and disposal.[8]
Collection[edit]
The functional element of collection includes not only the gathering of solid waste and recyclable materials, but also the transport of these materials, after collection, to the location where the collection vehicle is emptied. This location may be a materials processing facility, a transfer station or a landfill disposal site.
Waste handling and separation, storage and processing at the source[edit]
Waste handling and separation involves activities associated with waste management until the waste is placed in storage containers for collection. Handling also encompasses the movement of loaded containers to the point of collection. Separating different types of waste components is an important step in the handling and storage of solid waste at the source.
Segregation and processing and transformation of solid wastes[edit]
The types of means and facilities that are now used for the recovery of waste materials that have been separated at the source include curbside ('kerbside' in the UK) collection, drop-off and buy-back centers. The separation and processing of wastes that have been separated at the source and the separation of commingled wastes usually occur at a materials recovery facility, transfer stations, combustion facilities and disposal sites.
Transfer and transport[edit]
This element involves two main steps. First, the waste is transferred from a smaller collection vehicle to larger transport equipment. The waste is then transported, usually over long distances, to a processing or disposal site.
Disposal[edit]
Mixed municipal waste, Hiriya, Tel Aviv
Today, the disposal of wastes by land filling or land spreading is the ultimate fate of all solid wastes, whether they are residential wastes collected and transported directly to a landfill site, residual materials from materials recovery facilities (MRFs), residue from the combustion of solid waste, compost, or other substances from various solid waste processing facilities. A modern sanitary landfill is not a dump; it is an engineered facility used for disposing of solid wastes on land without creating nuisances or hazards to public health or safety, such as the problems of insects and the contamination of ground water.
Reusing[edit]
In the recent years environmental organizations, such as Freegle or Freecycle Network, have been gaining popularity for their online reuse networks. These networks provide a worldwide online registry of unwanted items that would otherwise be thrown away, for individuals and nonprofits to reuse or recycle. Therefore, this free Internet-based service reduces landfill pollution and promotes the gift economy.
Landfills[edit]
Landfills are created by land dumping. Land dumping methods vary, most commonly it involves the mass dumping of waste into a designated area, usually a hole or sidehill. After the waste is dumped, it is then compacted by large machines. When the dumping cell is full, it is then "sealed" with a plastic sheet and covered in several feet of dirt. This is the primary method of dumping in the United States because of the low cost and abundance of unused land in North America. Landfills pose the threat of pollution, and can intoxicate ground water. The signs of pollution are effectively masked by disposal companies and it is often hard to see any evidence. Usually landfills are surrounded by large walls or fences hiding the mounds of debris. Large amounts of chemical odor eliminating agent are sprayed in the air surrounding landfills to hide the evidence of the rotting waste inside the plant.[9]
Energy generation[edit]
Municipal solid waste can be used to generate energy. Several technologies have been developed that make the processing of MSW for energy generation cleaner and more economical than ever before, including landfill gas capture, combustion, pyrolysis, gasification, and plasma arc gasification.[10] While older waste incineration plants emitted high levels of pollutants, recent regulatory changes and new technologies have significantly reduced this concern. United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations in 1995 and 2000 under the Clean Air Act have succeeded in reducing emissions of dioxins from waste-to-energy facilities by more than 99 percent below 1990 levels, while mercury emissions have been reduced by over 90 percent.[11] The EPA noted these improvements in 2003, citing waste-to-energy as a power source "with less environmental impact than almost any other source of electricity".[12]
See also[edit]
Garbology (study of modern refuse and trash)
List of waste management acronyms
MSW/LFG (municipal solid waste and landfill gas)
Sewage
References[edit]
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
^ Centenary history of waste and waste managers in London and south east England- Page 7
^ Non-hazardous Waste U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Municipal Solid Waste
^ Municipal Solid Waste U.S. Energy Information Administration
^ Mechanical Biological Treatment Welsh Assembly (2005) Mechanical Biological Treatment, Environment Countryside and Planning Website, Welsh Assembly
^ "Organics -Green Bin". Christchurch City Council. Retrieved 19 March 2016.
^ Nonhazardous waste U.S. Energy Information Administration
^ System Overview
^ Advancing Sustainable Materials Management: Facts and Figures
^ Rogers, Heather. Gone Tomorrow: The Hidden Life of Garbage.
^ Environmental and Energy Study Institute Issue Brief
^ Combustion Emissions from Hazardous Waste Incinerators, Boilers and Industrial Furnaces, and Municipal Solid Waste Incinerators- Results from Five STAR Grants and Research Needs U.S. EPA
^ U.S. EPA Letter to Maria Zannes, President, Integrated Waste Services Association
Further reading[edit]
Vergara, S. E.; Tchobanoglous, G. (2012). "Municipal Solid Waste and the Environment: A Global Perspective". Annual Review of Environment and Resources. 37: 277. doi:10.1146/annurev-environ-050511-122532.
External links[edit]
"Environmentally Sound Management of Solid Wastes and Sewage-Related Issues". United Nations Environment Programme. Retrieved 2011-02-23.
"Municipal Solid Waste Management and Handling Rules 2000, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India". envfor.nic.in. Retrieved 2011-02-25.
Municipal Solid Waste in the U.S. Factsheet by the University of Michigan's Center for Sustainable Systems
v
t
e
Biosolids, waste and waste management
Major types
Agricultural wastewater
Biodegradable waste
Brown waste
Chemical waste
Construction waste
Demolition waste
Electronic waste
by country
Food waste
Green waste
Hazardous waste
Heat waste
Industrial waste
Litter
Marine debris
Biomedical waste
Mining waste
Municipal solid waste
Open defecation
Photodegradation
Post-consumer waste
Radioactive waste
Sewage
Toxic waste
Wastewater
Processes
Anaerobic digestion
Biodegradation
Composting
Garden waste dumping
Illegal dumping
Incineration
Landfill
Landfill mining
Mechanical biological treatment
Mechanical sorting
Open dump
Recycling
Resource recovery
Sewage treatment
Waste collection
Waste picking
Waste sorting
Waste trade
Waste treatment
Waste-to-energy
Countries
Armenia
Bangladesh
Brazil
Hong Kong
India
New Zealand
Russia
Switzerland
UK
USA
Agreements
Bamako Convention
Basel Convention
EU directives
batteries
landfills
RoHS
framework
incineration
waste water
WEEE
London Convention
Oslo Convention
OSPAR Convention
Other topics
Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future
Cleaner production
Downcycling
Eco-industrial park
Extended producer responsibility
High-level radioactive waste management
History of waste management
Landfill fire
Sewage regulation and administration
Upcycling
Waste hierarchy
Waste legislation
Waste minimisation
Zero waste
Environment portal
Category
Commons
Concepts
Index
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Authority control
GND: 4113855-7
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:2149148-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161116143755 and revision id 749854127
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Municipal_solid_waste&oldid=749854127"
Categories: WasteHidden categories: Articles with limited geographic scope from March 2012USA-centricArticles needing additional references from April 2011All articles needing additional referencesWikipedia articles with GND identifiers