Naturalbuilding
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (June 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
A natural building involves a range of building systems and materials that place major emphasis on sustainability. Ways of achieving sustainability through natural building focus on durability and the use of minimally processed, plentiful or renewable resources, as well as those that, while recycled or salvaged, produce healthy living environments and maintain indoor air quality. Natural building tends to rely on human labor, more than technology. As Michael G. Smith observes, it depends on "local ecology, geology and climate; on the character of the particular building site, and on the needs and personalities of the builders and users."[1]
The basis of natural building is the need to lessen the environmental impact of buildings and other supporting systems, without sacrificing comfort or health. To be more sustainable, natural building uses primarily abundantly available, renewable, reused or recycled materials. The use of rapidly renewable materials is increasingly a focus. In addition to relying on natural building materials, the emphasis on the architectural design is heightened. The orientation of a building, the utilization of local climate and site conditions, the emphasis on natural ventilation through design, fundamentally lessen operational costs and positively impact the environmental. Building compactly and minimizing the ecological footprint is common, as are on-site handling of energy acquisition, on-site water capture, alternate sewage treatment and water reuse.[citation needed]
Porch of a modern timber framed home
Contents
1 Materials
2 Techniques
2.1 Adobe
2.2 Cob
2.3 Cordwood
2.4 Earthbag
2.5 Rammed earth
2.6 Stone
2.7 Straw bale
2.8 Timber frame
3 See also
4 Notes
5 References
Materials[edit]
The materials common to many types of natural building are clay and sand. When mixed with water and, usually, straw or another fiber, the mixture may form cob or adobe (clay blocks). Other materials commonly used in natural building are: earth (as rammed earth or earth bag), wood (cordwood or timber frame/post-and-beam), straw, rice-hulls, bamboo and stone. A wide variety of reused or recycled non-toxic materials are common in natural building, including urbanite (salvaged chunks of used concrete), vehicle windscreens and other recycled glass.
Other materials are avoided by practitioners of this building approach, due to their major negative environmental or health impacts. These include unsustainably harvested wood, toxic wood-preservatives, portland cement-based mixes, paints and other coatings that off-gas volatile organic compounds (VOCs), and some plastics, particularly polyvinyl chloride (PVC or "vinyl") and those containing harmful plasticizers or hormone-mimicking formulations.[citation needed]
Techniques[edit]
Many traditional techniques and materials are now experiencing a resurgence of popularity. This differs around the world based on climate appropriate building design and the availability of local materials.
Adobe[edit]
Main articles: Adobe and Mudbrick
One of the oldest building methods, adobe is simply clay and sand mixed with water. Often, chopped straw or other fibers are added for strength. The mixture is then allowed to dry in the desired shape. Usually adobe is shaped into bricks that can be stacked to form walls.[2]
Various claims are made about the optimal proportions of clay and sand (or larger aggregate). Some say that the best adobe soil contains 15% - 30% clay to bind the material together. Others say equal proportions of clay and sand are best to prevent cracking or fragmenting of the bricks. The blocks can either be poured into molds and dried, or pressed into blocks. Adobe colored with clay and polished with natural oil makes an attractive and resilient floor.[3]
To protect the walls and reduce maintenance, adobe buildings usually have large overhanging eaves and sizeable foundations. Adobe can be plastered over with cob or lime-based mixes for both appearance and protection. Adobe has good thermal mass, meaning that it is slow to transmit heat or cold. It is not a good insulator, however, so insulation can be added (preferably on the outside), or a double wall built with airspace or insulation in between. The traditional thick, un-insulated adobe has proven to perform best in regions without harsh winters or where daily sun is predictably available during those cold periods.[citation needed]
Cob[edit]
Main article: Cob (building)
A small cob building with a living roof
The term cob is used to describe a monolithic building system based on a mixture of clay, sand, straw and earth. The construction uses no forms, bricks or wooden framework; it is built from the ground up. Various forms of "mud" building have been used in many parts of the world for centuries, under a variety of names, and date from at least 10,000 years ago. Cob building began use in England prior to the 13th century, and fell out of favor after World War I, although it is seeing a resurgence today. Cob is one of the simplest and least expensive building techniques available, though it is typically very labor-intensive. Cob's other great advantage is versatility; It can easily be shaped into any form. While cob building was falling out of favor in England by the late 19th century, thousands of cob structures have endured to the present (20,000 in Devon, England alone).[4] It is estimated that from one third to one half of the world's population lives in earthen dwellings today. Although typically associated with "low-rise" structures, in Yemen and other Middle-Eastern countries it has, for centuries, been used in "apartment" buildings of eight stories and more.[5]
Cob-like mixes are also used as plaster or filler in several methods of natural building, such as adobe, earth bags, timber frames, cordwood, and straw bales. Earth is thus a primary ingredient of natural building.[citation needed]
Cordwood[edit]
Main article: Cordwood construction
A section of a cordwood home.
Cordwood construction is a term used for a natural building method in which "cordwood" or short lengths of pieces of debarked tree are laid up crosswise with masonry or cob mixtures to build a wall. The cordwood, thus, becomes infill for the walls, usually between posts in a timber frame structure. Cordwood masonry can be combined with other methods (e.g., rammed earth, cob or light clay) to produce attractive combinations. Cordwood masonry construction provides a relatively high thermal mass, which helps to minimise fluctuations in temperature.[6]
Earthbag[edit]
Main articles: Earthbag construction and Super Adobe
Earth is the most typical fill material used in bag-wall construction techniques. This building method utilizes stacked polypropylene or natural-fiber (burlap) bags filled with earth or other mixes without a stabilizer such as portland cement, to form footings, foundations, walls and even vaulted or domed roofs. In recent years, building with earth bags has become one of the increasingly practiced techniques in natural building. It facilitates self-contained, often free-form rammed-earth structures. Its growing popularity relates to its use of an abundant and readily available often site-available material (earth) in a potentially inexpensive building technique that is flexible, and easy to learn and use. However, because earth is a poor insulator, in more extreme climates other filler variations are now being explored, substituting pumice, rice-hulls or another material with better insulating value for all or part of the earth (see also Rice-hull bagwall construction).
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2012) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Rammed earth[edit]
Main article: Rammed earth
Rammed earth is a wall system made of compacted earth, or another material that is compacted.[7] It is extremely strong and durable. Quality rammed earth walls are dense, solid, and stone-like with great environmental benefits and superior low maintenance characteristics.[citation needed] As an option depending on climate or seismic concerns rigid insulation can be placed inside the wall as well as steel reinforcement. Rammed earth has been used for around 10,000 years in all types of buildings from low rise to high-rise and from small huts to palaces.[8]
Rammed earth walls are formed in place by pounding damp sub-soil (containing sand, clay and sometimes gravel) into movable, reusable forms with manual or machine-powered tampers. In traditional rammed earth, a mixture of around 70% aggregate (gravel,sand) and 30% clay is optimal. Pigmentation may be added if the mix to achieve the desired color. Around 5-10inches of mixed damp sub-soil are placed inside the forms and pounded to total compaction and the process is repeated until the desired height is achieved. What is left after the forms are removed is a wall that is structural and can last over 1000 years.[9]
Stone[edit]
Dry limestone bridge across Hubb Creek, Wellington, Ontario, Canada. It was built by members of 'Dry Stone Walling Across Canada' using 38 tons of stone
Stone has been used as a building material for thousands of years. It has long been recognized as a material of great durability. The pyramids in Giza, burial chambers in the UK and temples in Malta were all built from stone over 4000 years ago and are still standing. The earliest form of stone construction is known as dry stone, or dry stacking. These are freestanding structures such as field walls, bridges and buildings that use irregularly shaped stones carefully selected and placed so that they fit closely together without slipping. Structures are typically wider at the base and taper in as height increases. They do not require any special tools, only the skill of the craftsman in choosing and placing the stones.
Traditional stone masonry evolved from dry stone stacking. Stone blocks are laid in rows of even (courses) or uneven (un-coursed) height, and fixed in place with lime mortar pasted between the stones. Traditional stone masonry is rarely used today because stone is expensive to quarry, cut and transport, and the building process is labor and skill-intensive.
Stone is a highly durable, low maintenance building material with high thermal mass. It is versatile, available in many shapes, sizes, colors and textures, and can be used for floors, walls, arches and roofs. Stone blends well with the natural landscape, and can easily be recycled for other building purposes.
Straw bale[edit]
Main article: Straw bale construction
Straw bale construction in Santa Cruz, CA
Although grasses and straw have been in use in a range of ways in building since pre-history around the world, their incorporation in machine-manufactured modular bales seems to date back to the early 20th century in the midwestern United States, particularly the sand-hills of Nebraska, where grass was plentiful and other building materials (even quality sods) were not. Straw bale building typically consists of stacking a series of rows of bales (often in running-bond) on a raised footing or foundation, with a moisture barrier between. Bale walls are often tied together with pins of bamboo or wood (internal to the bales or on their faces), or with surface wire meshes, and then stuccoed or plastered either lime-based formulations or earth/clay renders. Bale buildings can either have a structural frame of other materials, with bales between (simply serving as insulation and stucco substrate), referred to as "infill",or the bales may actually provide the support for openings and roof, referred to as "load-bearing" or "Nebraska-style", or a combination of framing and load-bearing may be employed, referred to a "hybrid" straw bale.[citation needed]
Typically, bales created on farms with mobile machinery have been used ("field-bales"), but recently higher-density "recompressed" bales (or "straw-blocks") are increasing the loads that may be supported; where field bales might support around 600 pounds per linear foot of wall, the high density bales bear up to 4,000lb./lin.ft. and more. And the basic bale-building method is now increasingly being extended to bound modules of other often-recycled materials, including tire-bales, as well as those of cardboard, paper, plastics and used carpeting, and to bag-contained "bales" of wood-chips, rice-hulls, etc.[citation needed]
Timber frame[edit]
Main article: Timber frame
The completed frame of a modern timber frame home
The basic elements of timber frame buildingjoined timbers, clay walls and thatch roofs were in place in Europe and Asia by the 9th century. It remained the common mode of house construction in northern cultures until the 19th century. Craftsmanship was, and is, an important value in timber frame building. The oldest timber frame structures (for example, the timber framed stave churches of Scandinavia) show both craftsmanship and a strong grasp of the technical aspects of structural design, as do such structures in Japan.[citation needed]
Timber framing typically uses a "bent." A bent is a structural support, like a truss, consisting of two posts, a tie beam and two rafters. These are connected into a framework through joinery. To practice the craft, one must understand the basic structural aspects of the bent. This, along with a knowledge of joinery, are the basis of timber frame building.[citation needed]
Timber framing is now a modern method of construction, Ideally suited to mass house building as well as public buildings. In conjunction with a number of natural insulations and timber cladding or modern lime renders, it is possible to quickly construct a high performance, sustainable building, using completely natural products. The benefits are manythe building performs better over its lifespan, waste is reduced (much can be re-cycled, composted or used as fuel). Timber frame structures are frequently used in combination with other natural building techniques, such as cob, straw bale, or cordwood/masonry.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Earth structure
Green building
Recycling timber
Renewable heat
Self-sufficient homes
Wattle and daub
Notes[edit]
^ Smith, Michael G. "The Case for Natural Building," in Kennedy, Smith and Wanek (2002), 6.
^ Chiras, Daniel D. (2000). The Natural House: A Complete Guide to Healthy, Energy-efficient, Environmental Homes. White River Junction, Vt.: Chelsea Green Pub. pp.127128. ISBN978-1-890132-57-6.
^ Gibson, Scott; Anthony, Paul (2003). The Workshop: Celebrating the Place Where Craftsmanship Begins. Newton, CT: Taunton Press. p.172. ISBN978-1-56158-575-5.
^ Smith, Michael G. "Cob Building, Ancient and Modern," in Kennedy, Smith and Wanek, (2002), 132-133.
^ Evans, Ianto (2002). The Hand-sculpted House. White River Junction, Vt.: Chelsea Green Pub. Co. p.xv. ISBN978-1-890132-34-7.
^ Chiras, Daniel D. (2000). The Natural House: A Complete Guide to Healthy, Energy-efficient, Environmental Homes. White River Junction, Vt.: Chelsea Green Pub. pp.178179. ISBN978-1-890132-57-6.
^ Pis terminology
^ Jaquin, P. A.; Augarde, C. E.; Gerrard, C. M. (2006), "Analysis of Historic Rammed EarthCconstruction" (PDF), Structural Analysis of Historical Constructions, New Delhi 2006 Missing or empty |title= (help)
^ Jaquin, P. A.; Augarde, C. E.; Gerrard, C. M. (2006), "Analysis of Historic Rammed Earth construction" (PDF), Structural Analysis of Historical Constructions, New Delhi 2006 Missing or empty |title= (help)
References[edit]
Lynne Elizabeth, L., and Adams, C., eds. 2000. Alternative Construction, Contemporary Natural Building Methods pub. by John Wiley & Sons, inc. NY, NY
Kennedy, J., Smith, M. and Wanek, C. eds. 2002. The Art of Natural Building: Design, Construction, Resources. Gabriola Island, BC. New Society Publishers.
Ianto Evans, Michael G. Smith, and Linda Smiley. 2003. The Hand-Sculpted House: A Practical and Philosophical Guide to Building a Cob Cottage. Chelsea Green Publishing.
Woolley T. 2006. Natural Building: A Guide to Materials and Techniques. Crowood Press.
v
t
e
Environmental technology
Appropriate technology
Clean technology
Environmental design
Environmental impact assessment
Sustainable development
Sustainable technology
Pollution
Air pollution (control
dispersion modeling)
Industrial ecology
Solid waste treatment
Waste management
Water (agricultural wastewater treatment
industrial wastewater treatment
sewage treatment
waste-water treatment technologies
water purification)
Renewable energy
Alternative energy
Efficient energy use
Energy development
Energy recovery
Fuel (alternative fuel
biofuel
carbon negative fuel
hydrogen technologies)
List of energy storage projects
Renewable energy (commercialization)
Sustainable energy
Transportation (electric vehicle
hybrid vehicle)
Conservation
Birth control
Building (green
natural
sustainable architecture
New Urbanism
New Classical)
Conservation biology
Conservation ethic
Ecoforestry
Environmental preservation
Environmental remediation
Green computing
Permaculture
Recycling
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1267
Cached time: 20161120063303
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.300 seconds
Real time usage: 0.356 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2111/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 84065/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 4734/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 11/40
Expensive parser function count: 4/500
Lua time usage: 0.153/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 3.63 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
269.198
1 - -total
42.28%
113.809
10 - Template:Citation_needed
38.05%
102.434
10 - Template:Fix
23.65%
63.677
10 - Template:Delink
22.18%
59.708
1 - Template:Reflist
17.58%
47.318
1 - Template:More_footnotes
14.29%
38.458
4 - Template:Cite_book
11.93%
32.114
20 - Template:Category_handler
11.91%
32.073
2 - Template:Ambox
5.00%
13.458
7 - Template:Main
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1332341-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120063303 and revision id 746685732
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Natural_building&oldid=746685732"
Categories: Architectural theorySustainable buildingSustainable architectureBuildings and structures by typeRecycled building materialsBuilding materialsGarden featuresTimber framingHidden categories: Pages with citations lacking titlesArticles lacking in-text citations from June 2012All articles lacking in-text citationsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2012Articles needing additional references from June 2012All articles needing additional referencesArticles with unsourced statements from July 2008