NorthAmericancollegiatesustainabilityprograms
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}North American collegiate sustainability programs are institutions of higher education in the United States, Mexico, and Canada that have majors and/or minors dedicated to the subject of sustainability. Sustainability as a major and minor is spreading to more and more colleges as the need for humanity to adopt a more sustainable lifestyle becomes increasingly apparent with the onset of global warming. The majors and minors listed here cover a wide array of sustainability aspects from business to construction to agriculture to simply the study of sustainability itself.
Contents
1 Canada
1.1 Acadia University
1.2 Dalhousie University
1.3 Trent University
1.4 University of British Columbia
2 Mexico
2.1 Instituto Tecnolgico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM)
3 United States
3.1 Northeast
3.1.1 Columbia University
3.1.2 Drew University
3.1.3 Philadelphia University
3.1.4 Unity College
3.1.5 Wilson College
3.2 Southeast
3.2.1 Eastern Mennonite University
3.2.2 Furman University
3.2.3 University of Florida
3.3 Central
3.3.1 Aquinas College
3.3.2 Baldwin Wallace University
3.3.3 Maharishi University of Management
3.3.4 Northland College
3.3.5 University of Michigan
3.3.6 Western Michigan University
3.4 Southwest
3.4.1 Arizona State University
4 Additional programs
5 See also
6 References
Canada[edit]
Acadia University[edit]
Acadia University is located in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Canada and offers an undergraduate major in Environmental and Sustainability Studies. This major gives students the skills they need to make the changes necessary to create a more "sustainable and just society".[1] There are four concentration areas (Sustainable Community Development, Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Sustainability, Environmental Thought and Practice, and Environmental Advocacy, Education, and Activism) and two different degree options (a Bachelor of Arts and a Bachelor of Recreation Management) offered within the major. Additionally, the University is home to the Arthur Irving Academy for the Environment which organizes sustainability programs on the campus.[2]
Dalhousie University[edit]
Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada offers two different majors, Environment, Sustainability, and Society (ESS) [3] and Sustainable Resources and The Environment.[4] Both majors incorporate different outlooks on sustainability. Sustainable Resource and The Environment focuses on managing environments, whereas ESS focuses on changing for the future. Along with these two majors, Dalhousie also has an Office of Sustainability [5] which offers a wide variety of programs focusing on becoming more sustainable that range from transportation to eating sustainably.
Trent University[edit]
Trent University, located in Peterborough, Ontario, Canada, offers an undergraduate degree in Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems as well as a Master of Arts in Sustainability. The Sustainable Agriculture program encompasses the aspects of growing healthy, sustainable, and affordable food [6]. The Masters program delves into the three pillars of sustainability to prepare students to become leaders in sustainable endeavors.[7] In addition, Trent has its own Office of Sustainability that leads several programs including lighting retrofits and the installation of green roofs [8]
University of British Columbia[edit]
The University of British Columbia offers an Environment and Sustainability major at its Vancouver campus. This major promotes an understanding of the variety of factors that affect life on the planet now and in the future.[9] Some courses that are part of the major include The Global Climate System as well as Environment and Resources. The University of British Columbia also has the Centre for Interactive Research on Sustainability that focuses on creating and implementing solutions to the challenges of urban development [10]
Mexico[edit]
Instituto Tecnolgico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM)[edit]
Also known as Technologico De Monterrey (In English: Monterrey Institute of Technology), ITESM is based in Monterrey, Mexico but actually has thirty-one campuses throughout the country. The institute is offers a major in Sustainable Development Engineering, which focuses on the efficient use of energy and water as well as the management of emissions and the relationship between the environment and society.[11] Some of the classes offered include Industrial Ecology and Sustainable Use of Water. The Sustainable Development Engineering major is offered at their Mexico City, State of Mexico, Monterrey, and Santa Fe campuses.
United States[edit]
Northeast[edit]
Columbia University[edit]
Columbia University in New York City offers a Sustainable Development major that focuses on educating students on how to accomplish a sustainable society. Students will take classes from multiple clusters including Sustainable Development Foundation, Basic Disciplinary Foundation, Skills/Action, and Analysis and Solutions to Complex Problems.[12] The University has also developed a Master of Science in Sustainability Management [13] geared towards the role of sustainability in organizations. Columbia is also home to the Earth Institute whose mission is to bring people together to address and overcome some of the most pressing problems facing the Earth and humanity today. The institute also oversees sustainability initiatives for Columbias campus [14]
Drew University[edit]
Located in Madison, New Jersey, Drew University offers a major in Environmental Studies and Sustainability. This major studies the current environmental problems facing the world today and provides the skills needed to overcome these problems. Students who take part in this academic program will have an experiential requirement that involves an environmental-related, hands-on experience [15] Drew University has numerous sustainability initiatives underway as well [16]
Philadelphia University[edit]
Located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Philadelphia University has both a major and a minor in Environmental Sustainability that prepare students to serve as strategic leaders of environmental initiatives for corporations, communities, and organizations. The courses they offer are diverse and range from Sustainable Technologies for Architecture to the Economics of Sustainability.[17] They also offer a Master of Science in Sustainable Design focusing on green design and the development of net zero carbon buildings [18]
Unity College[edit]
Unity College in Unity, Maine has not one, but two sustainability majors. Their Sustainable Energy Management major is both a technical and conceptual major designed to educate students in building sustainable structures that focus on renewable energy.[19] On the other hand, the Sustainable Agriculture major they offer [20] concentrates on teaching sustainable agricultural practices that emphasize local farming and activism when it comes to governmental food policies. As an environmental college, there is a lot of focus on sustainability initiatives at Unity College. In fact, theyve employed a full-time sustainability coordinator whose job is to make Unity College as environmentally friendly as possible.
Wilson College[edit]
Located in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, Wilson College is a womens college that offers two sustainability majors. Business Sustainability and Environmental Management [21] integrates sustainability practices into the business world. Environmental Sustainability [22] focuses more on solving environmental problems. Wilson has a Center for Sustainable Living that works with the Fulton Center for Sustainable Living (which serves as an environmental educational facility as well as a produce farm) [23]
Southeast[edit]
Eastern Mennonite University[edit]
Eastern Mennonite University in Harrisonburg, Virginia offers a major in Environmental Sustainability.[24] This program focuses on forward-looking sustainability practices and requires students to choose one of two areas of study: Environmental Science Concentration (focuses on traditional environmental sciences) or Environmental and Social Sustainability Concentration (combines concepts from the first concentration and incorporates sociological aspects). Besides the major, Eastern Mennonite University has integrated some sustainable initiatives around campus, including the largest solar insulation in the state of Virginia and a dormitory that is LEED certified at the gold level.[25]
Furman University[edit]
Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina offers a major in Sustainability science.[26] The focus of this major is to prepare and educate students on how to enhance the long-term quality of life. This program offers nearly 30 different elective courses along with the required coursework. All of the elective courses are broken into three different categories: Environmental Security, Human Security, and Sustainable Production and Consumption. Furman University also has the Sustainability Planning Council (SPC) [27] and the David E. Shi Center of Sustainability,[28] which both focus on promoting sustainability throughout the campus.
University of Florida[edit]
The University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida offers three different types of majors and minors that incorporate sustainability. The three majors and minors are Sustainability Studies,[29] Sustainability and the Built Environment,[30] and Sustainable Crop Production and Management.[31] Each major/minor provides a diverse look into sustainability topics, while offering an array of courses from Agriculture and Environmental Quality to Organic & Sustainable Crop Production and from Sustainable Ecotourism Development to Social and Cultural Sustainability. These majors/minors focus on gaining the knowledge and skill sets to affectively contribute to the growth of societies of current and future generations. In addition to the range of academic programs, University of Florida also has an Office of Sustainability that has created nine different sustainability programs for the University of Florida including the One Less Car and Tailgator Game Day Recycling programs.[32]
Central[edit]
Aquinas College[edit]
Aquinas College, located in Grand Rapids, Michigan, is one of the first to offer a major and minor in Sustainable Business.[33] Recognizing that businesses have a huge impact on the environment, Aquinas academic program seeks to educate students in sustainable business practices that not only promote profitability, but environmental and societal well being too. Courses for the major and minor include Sustainable Business Management and Building Social Capital.[34]
Baldwin Wallace University[edit]
Located in Berea, Ohio, Baldwin Wallace University offers a major and minor in Sustainability.[35] This academic program focuses on preparing students to create solutions to the worlds current environmental and social problems through courses such as Sustainable Food and Green Business. In addition to their undergraduate program, Baldwin Wallace University also has a Master of Business Administration in Sustainability.[36] Besides taking steps to reduce the campus environmental footprint, Baldwin Wallace also holds a yearly Sustainability Symposium that is open to the public [37]
Maharishi University of Management[edit]
The Maharishi University of Management found in Fairfield, Iowa, began its Sustainable Living degree program back in 2003, making it a leader in its field. Its Bachelor of Science and minor in Sustainable Living both focus on sustainable community development.[38] Other than implementing hands-on projects and internship opportunities, this program operates on the block system (students focus only on one course per month) and concentrates on the development of consciousness. The University is currently in the process of building a Sustainable Living Center that, once finished, will not only surpass the highest LEED standard for a building (platinum) but comply with the Living Building Challenge as well.
Northland College[edit]
Ashland, Wisconsin is the site of Northland College that offers both a major and a minor in Sustainable Community Development.[39] Both programs are geared toward students who wish to be agents of change for communities in the way of sustainability. Courses include Methods of Sustainable Community Development and Capitalism, Justice, and Sustainability. Northland is one of five colleges that are part of the Eco League (a group of colleges dedicated to the pursuit of sustainability education) and offers a campus sustainability work study program [40] to its students among other things.
University of Michigan[edit]
The University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, Michigan offers both a major and minor in Sustainable Systems.[41] These programs focus on how to enhance systems so that theyre more sustainable using technology and enterprise. Students can choose from over forty different courses in three different clusters: Systems Analysis for Sustainability, Sustainable Design and Technology, and Sustainable Enterprise that cover a broad range of themes (including the built environment, mobility, and food systems). Additionally, the University of Michigan has an Office of Campus Sustainability [42] and includes the Graham Environmental Sustainability Institute.[43]
Western Michigan University[edit]
Western Michigan University has a Sustainabity department.[44]
Southwest[edit]
Arizona State University[edit]
The ASU School of Sustainability at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona offers the BA, BS, MA, MS, and PhD in Sustainability.[45] Other degrees offered are the Master of Sustainable Solutions (applied non-thesis program) and the Executive Master in Sustainability Leadership (13-month executive degree). Through the university's online platform, students may also pursue a BA in Sustainability and a Master of Sustainability Leadership degree. It is the first School of Sustainability in the United States, founded in 2006.[46] Several sustainability programs are found in other colleges at ASU, including Business, Engineering, Public Service and Community Solutions.
Additional programs[edit]
Most of the schools above didn't start out with a sustainability focused major. Many started with a major that was related to sustainability or a sustainability minor that eventually evolved into the major(s) they have today. Therefore, the following table not only represents colleges that have sustainability related majors and minors but colleges that have a good chance of developing sustainability majors in the future.
Institution
Location
Type of Program Offered
Title of Program
Canada
McGill University
Montreal, Quebec, Canada
Bachelor of Engineering
Bioresource Engineering
University of Western Ontario
London, Ontario, Canada
Bachelor of Engineering
Green Process Engineering
Northeastern United States
Carnegie Mellon
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Minor
Environmental Engineering and Sustainability
College of the Atlantic
Mount Desert Island, Maine
Area of Study
Sustainable Business
Sustainable Food Systems
Dickinson College
Carlisle, Pennsylvania
Over 60 Sustainability Courses Offered
Courses Offered
Green Mountain College
Poultney, Vermont
Program (not a major or minor)
Sustainable Agriculture and Food Production
Hartwick College
Oneonta, New York
Living-Learning Community
The Pine Lake Institute For Environmental and Sustainability Studies
Paul Smith's College
Brighton, New York
Bachelor of Science
Natural Resources Sustainability
Pennsylvania State University
University Park, Pennsylvania
Minor
Sustainability Leadership
State University of New York
College of Environmental Science and Forestry
Syracuse, New York
Minor
Sustainable Construction
University of Baltimore
Baltimore, Maryland
Bachelor of Arts
Environmental Sustainability and Human Ecology
University of Rochester
Rochester, New York
Minor
Sustainability
Southeastern United States
Berea College
Berea, Kentucky
Minor
Sustainability and Environmental Studies
Catawba College
Salisbury, North Carolina
Minor
Sustainable Business
Clemson University
Clemson, South Carolina
Bachelor of Science
Soils and Sustainable Crop Systems
Central United States
Rice University
Houston, Texas
Interdisciplinary Program
Shell Center for Sustainability
University of Dayton
Dayton, Ohio
Minor
Sustainability
University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign
Urbana and Champaign, Illinois
Minor
Environmental Fellows Program
Earth, Society, and Environment
See also[edit]
List of environmental degree-granting institutions
List of environmental degree-granting institutions in the United States
References[edit]
^ "Environmental & Sustainability Studies ~ About Us". Environment.acadiau.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Arthur Irving Academy for the Environment ~ Campus Sustainability". Aiae.acadiau.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Environment, Sustainability & Society". Sustainability.dal.ca. December 21, 2010. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainable Resources & The Environment - Academics - Dalhousie University". Dal.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Programs - Office of Sustainability - Dalhousie University". Dal.ca. April 1, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Trent University:: Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems". Trentu.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Trent University:: Sustainability M.A". Trentu.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Trent University:: Sustainability Office". Trentu.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Programs - Geography - Environment & Sustainability (Vancouver - BA) - you@UBC - University of British Columbia". You.ubc.ca. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "CIRS | UBC Sustainability". Sustain.ubc.ca. January 27, 2010. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Tecnolgico de Monterrey | Carreras Profesionales | reas de estudio | Ingeniero en Desarrollo Sustentable". Itesm.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Columbia University's Undergraduate Major in Sustainable Development - The Earth Institute - Columbia University". Earth.columbia.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Master of Science in Sustainability Management - The Earth Institute - Columbia University". Earth.columbia.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Mission: Solutions for Sustainable Development - The Earth Institute - Columbia University". Earth.columbia.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Environmental Studies and Sustainability | College of Liberal Arts | Drew University". Drew.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability | Drew University". Drew.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ Liberal Arts (April 3, 2009). "Philadelphia University's College of Science, Health and the Liberal Arts". Philau.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Philadelphia University: M.S. in Sustainable Design". Philau.edu. November 2, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Unity College Pages". Unity.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ http://www.unity.edu/Academic/Majors/SustainableFoodAndAgriculture/SustainableFoodAndAgriculture.aspx_
^ "Wilson College: Academics Undergraduate Programs Majors Business Sustainability and Environmental Management". Wilson.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Wilson College: Academics Undergraduate Programs Majors Environmental Studies Major in Environmental Sustainability". Wilson.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Wilson College: About Wilson College Fulton Center for Sustainable Living Sustainability at Wilson". Wilson.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Environmental Sustainability Major  Applied Social Sciences  Eastern Mennonite University". Emu.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability  Eastern Mennonite University". Emu.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Degree Requirements". .furman.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability Planning Council". .furman.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Center for Sustainability". .furman.edu. October 24, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability Studies | The University of Florida". Clas.ufl.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability Home - University of Florida Design, Construction and Planning". Dcp.ufl.edu. October 20, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Agronomy Department, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida  Undergraduate Curriculum". Agronomy.ifas.ufl.edu. October 6, 2010. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Programs | Sustainable UF". Sustainable.ufl.edu. January 31, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Aquinas College:: Sustainability Initiative". Aquinas.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Aquinas College:: Sustainable Business". Aquinas.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "B-W: Sustainability Programs at Baldwin-Wallace College". Bw.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "B-W: Master of Business Administration in Sustainability Program Requirements". Bw.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "B-W: Sustainability Symposium, November 79, 2011". Bw.edu. October 25, 2011. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "B.S. in Sustainable Living | M.U.M". Sustainableliving.mum.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Northland College | Catalog". Catalog.northland.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainability  Work Study Positions | Northland College". Northland.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Sustainable Systems | School of Natural Resources and Environment | University of Michigan". Snre.umich.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Office of Campus Sustainability". Ocs.umich.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Graham Institute: About the Graham Environmental Sustainability Institute at the University of Michigan". Graham.umich.edu. Retrieved November 24, 2011.
^ "Western Michigan University Sustainability". wmich.edu. Western Michigan University. Retrieved August 13, 2016.
^ "ASU School of Sustainability - Earn a Degree in Sustainability - School of Sustainability". School of Sustainability. Retrieved 2016-01-27.
^ Makower, Joel. "How Arizona State aims to create business sustainability leaders". GreenBiz. Retrieved 2016-01-27.
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:33791349-0!*!0!!en!*!* and timestamp 20161022151415 and revision id 734358202
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=North_American_collegiate_sustainability_programs&oldid=734358202"
Categories: Environmental educationUniversities and colleges in the United StatesHidden categories: Use mdy dates from November 2011