Nuclearpowerplant
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}This article is about electricity generation from nuclear power. For the general topic of nuclear power, see Nuclear power.
A nuclear power station (Grafenrheinfeld Nuclear Power Plant, Grafenrheinfeld, Bavaria, Germany). The nuclear reactor is contained inside the spherical containment building in the center  left and right are cooling towers which are common cooling devices used in all thermal power stations, and likewise, emit water vapor from the non-radioactive steam turbine section of the power plant.
Bohunice Nuclear Power Plant in Jaslovsk Bohunice in Slovakia.
A nuclear power plant or nuclear power station is a thermal power station in which the heat source is a nuclear reactor. As is typical in all conventional thermal power stations the heat is used to generate steam which drives a steam turbine connected to an electric generator which produces electricity. As of 23 April 2014[update], the IAEA report there are 435nuclear power reactors in operation[1] operating in 31countries.[2] Nuclear power stations are usually considered to be base load stations, since fuel is a small part of the cost of production.[3] Their operations and maintenance (O&M) and fuel costs are, along with hydropower stations, at the low end of the spectrum and make them suitable as base-load power suppliers. The cost of spent fuel management, however, is somewhat uncertain.
Contents
1 History
2 Systems
2.1 Nuclear reactors
2.2 Steam turbine
2.3 Generator
2.4 Cooling system
2.5 Safety valves
2.6 Feedwater pump
2.7 Emergency power supply
3 Workers in a nuclear power station
4 Economics
5 Safety and accidents
6 Controversy
7 Reprocessing
8 Accident indemnification
9 Decommissioning
10 Historic accidents
11 Flexibility of nuclear power stations
12 Future power stations
13 See also
14 References
15 External links
History[edit]
The control room at an American nuclear power station
For more history, see nuclear reactor, nuclear power and nuclear fission.
Electricity was generated by a nuclear reactor for the first time ever on September 3, 1948 at the X-10 Graphite Reactor in Oak Ridge, Tennessee in the United States, and was the first nuclear power station to power a light bulb.[4][5][6] The second, larger experiment occurred on December 20, 1951 at the EBR-I experimental station near Arco, Idaho in the United States. On June 27, 1954, the world's first nuclear power station to generate electricity for a power grid started operations at the Soviet city of Obninsk.[7] The world's first full scale power station, Calder Hall in England opened on October 17, 1956.[8]
Systems[edit]
BWR schematic
Pressurized water reactor
*This section has recently been translated from the German Wikipedia.*
The conversion to electrical energy takes place indirectly, as in conventional thermal power stations. The fission in a nuclear reactor heats the reactor coolant. The coolant may be water or gas or even liquid metal depending on the type of reactor. The reactor coolant then goes to a steam generator and heats water to produce steam. The pressurized steam is then usually fed to a multi-stage steam turbine. After the steam turbine has expanded and partially condensed the steam, the remaining vapor is condensed in a condenser. The condenser is a heat exchanger which is connected to a secondary side such as a river or a cooling tower. The water is then pumped back into the steam generator and the cycle begins again. The water-steam cycle corresponds to the Rankine cycle.
Nuclear reactors[edit]
Main article: Nuclear reactor
The nuclear reactor is the heart of the station. In its central part, the reactor core's heat is generated by controlled nuclear fission. With this heat, a coolant is heated as it is pumped through the reactor and thereby removes the energy from the reactor. Heat from nuclear fission is used to raise steam, which runs through turbines, which in turn powers the electrical generators.
Nuclear reactors usually rely on uranium to fuel the chain reaction. Uranium is a very heavy metal that is abundant on Earth and is found in sea water as well as most rocks. Naturally occurring uranium is found in two different isotopes: uranium-238 (U-238), accounting for 99.3% and uranium-235 (U-235) accounting for about 0.7%. Isotopes are atoms of the same element with a different number of neutrons. Thus, U-238 has 146 neutrons and U-235 has 143 neutrons. Different isotopes have different behaviors. For instance, U-235 is fissile which means that it is easily split and gives off a lot of energy making it ideal for nuclear energy. On the other hand, U-238 does not have that property despite it being the same element. Different isotopes also have different half-lives. A half-life is the amount of time it takes for half of a sample of a radioactive element to decay. U-238 has a longer half-life than U-235, so it takes longer to decay over time. This also means that U-238 is less radioactive than U-235.
Since nuclear fission creates radioactivity, the reactor core is surrounded by a protective shield. This containment absorbs radiation and prevents radioactive material from being released into the environment. In addition, many reactors are equipped with a dome of concrete to protect the reactor against both internal casualties and external impacts.[9]
Steam turbine[edit]
Main article: Steam turbine
The purpose of the steam turbine is to convert the heat contained in steam into mechanical energy. The engine house with the steam turbine is usually structurally separated from the main reactor building. It is so aligned to prevent debris from the destruction of a turbine in operation from flying towards the reactor.[citation needed]
In the case of a pressurized water reactor, the steam turbine is separated from the nuclear system. To detect a leak in the steam generator and thus the passage of radioactive water at an early stage, an activity meter is mounted to track the outlet steam of the steam generator. In contrast, boiling water reactors pass radioactive water through the steam turbine, so the turbine is kept as part of the radiologically controlled area of the nuclear power station.
Generator[edit]
Main article: Electric generator
The generator converts mechanical power supplied by the turbine into electrical power. Low-pole AC synchronous generators of high rated power are used.
Cooling system[edit]
A cooling system removes heat from the reactor core and transports it to another area of the station, where the thermal energy can be harnessed to produce electricity or to do other useful work. Typically the hot coolant is used as a heat source for a boiler, and the pressurized steam from that drives one or more steam turbine driven electrical generators.[10]
Safety valves[edit]
In the event of an emergency, safety valves can be used to prevent pipes from bursting or the reactor from exploding. The valves are designed so that they can derive all of the supplied flow rates with little increase in pressure. In the case of the BWR, the steam is directed into the suppression chamber and condenses there. The chambers on a heat exchanger are connected to the intermediate cooling circuit.
Feedwater pump[edit]
The water level in the steam generator and nuclear reactor is controlled using the feedwater system. The feedwater pump has the task of taking the water from the condensate system, increasing the pressure and forcing it into either the steam generators (in the case of a pressurized water reactor) or directly into the reactor (for boiling water reactors).
Emergency power supply[edit]
Most nuclear stations require two distinct sources of offsite power feeding station service transformers that are sufficiently separated in the stations's switchyard and can receive power from multiple transmission lines. In addition in some nuclear stations the turbine generator can power the station's house loads while the station is online via station service transformers which tap power from the generator output bus bars before they reach the step-up transformer (these stations also have station service transformers that receive offsite power directly from the switch yard). Even with the redundancy of two power sources total loss of offsite power is still possible. Nuclear power stations are equipped with emergency power.
Workers in a nuclear power station[edit]
Nuclear engineers
Reactor operators
Health physicists
Emergency response team personnel
Nuclear Regulatory Commission Resident Inspectors
In the United States and Canada, workers except for management, professional (such as engineers) and security personnel are likely to be members of either the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) or the Utility Workers Union of America (UWUA), or one of the various trades and labor unions representing Machinist, laborers, boilermakers, millwrights, iron workers etc.[citation needed]
Economics[edit]
Main article: Economics of new nuclear power plants
The Bruce Nuclear Generating Station, the largest nuclear power facility in the world[11]
The economics of new nuclear power stations is a controversial subject, and multibillion-dollar investments ride on the choice of an energy source. Nuclear power stations typically have high capital costs, but low direct fuel costs, with the costs of fuel extraction, processing, use and spent fuel storage internalized costs. Therefore, comparison with other power generation methods is strongly dependent on assumptions about construction timescales and capital financing for nuclear stations. Cost estimates take into account station decommissioning and nuclear waste storage or recycling costs in the United States due to the Price Anderson Act. With the prospect that all spent nuclear fuel/"nuclear waste" could potentially be recycled by using future reactors, generation IV reactors are being designed to completely close the nuclear fuel cycle. Presently, however there has not yet been any actual bulk recycling of waste from a NPP, and on-site temporary storage is still being used at almost all plant sites due to waste repository construction problems. Only Finland has stable repository plans, therefore from a world-wide perspective, long-term waste storage costs are uncertain.
Nuclear reactors in operation releasing hot steam as a side product
On the other hand, construction, or capital cost aside, measures to mitigate global warming such as a carbon tax or carbon emissions trading, increasingly favor the economics of nuclear power. Further efficiencies are hoped to be achieved through more advanced reactor designs, Generation III reactors promise to be at least 17% more fuel efficient, and have lower capital costs, while futuristic Generation IV reactors promise 10000-30000% greater fuel efficiency and the elimination of nuclear waste.
In Eastern Europe, a number of long-established projects are struggling to find finance, notably Belene in Bulgaria and the additional reactors at Cernavoda in Romania, and some potential backers have pulled out.[12] Where cheap gas is available and its future supply relatively secure, this also poses a major problem for nuclear projects.[12]
Analysis of the economics of nuclear power must take into account who bears the risks of future uncertainties. To date all operating nuclear power stations were developed by state-owned or regulated utility monopolies[13] where many of the risks associated with construction costs, operating performance, fuel price, and other factors were borne by consumers rather than suppliers. Many countries have now liberalized the electricity market where these risks, and the risk of cheaper competitors emerging before capital costs are recovered, are borne by station suppliers and operators rather than consumers, which leads to a significantly different evaluation of the economics of new nuclear power stations.[14]
Following the 2011 Fukushima I nuclear accidents, costs are likely to go up for currently operating and new nuclear power stations, due to increased requirements for on-site spent fuel management and elevated design basis threats.[15] However many designs, such as the currently under construction AP1000, use passive nuclear safety cooling systems, unlike those of Fukushima I which required active cooling systems, this largely eliminates the necessity to spend more on redundant back up safety equipment.
Safety and accidents[edit]
Main articles: Nuclear safety and security and  Nuclear power plant safety and security
In his book, Normal accidents, Charles Perrow says that multiple and unexpected failures are built into society's complex and tightly-coupled nuclear reactor systems. Such accidents are unavoidable and cannot be designed around.[16] An interdisciplinary team from MIT has estimated that given the expected growth of nuclear power from 2005  2055, at least four serious nuclear accidents would be expected in that period.[17][18] However the MIT study does not take into account improvements in safety since 1970.[19][20] To date, there have been five serious accidents (core damage) in the world since 1970 (one at Three Mile Island in 1979; one at Chernobyl in 1986; and three at Fukushima-Daiichi in 2011), corresponding to the beginning of the operation of generation II reactors. This leads to on average one serious accident happening every eight years worldwide.[citation needed]
Modern nuclear reactor designs have had numerous safety improvements since the first generation nuclear reactors. Nuclear power plants cannot explode like a nuclear bomb because the fuel for uranium reactors is not enriched enough, and nuclear weapons require precision explosives to force fuel into a small enough volume to go supercritical. Most reactors require continuous temperature control to prevent a core meltdown, which has occurred on a few occasions through accident or natural disaster, releasing radiation and making the surrounding area uninhabitable. Plants must be defended against theft of nuclear material (for example to make a dirty bomb) and attack by enemy military (which has occurred) planes or missiles, or planes hijacked by terrorists.
Controversy[edit]
Main article: Nuclear power debate
The abandoned city of Prypiat, Ukraine, following the Chernobyl disaster. The Chernobyl nuclear power station is in the background.
The nuclear power debate is about the controversy[21][22][23][24] which has surrounded the deployment and use of nuclear fission reactors to generate electricity from nuclear fuel for civilian purposes. The debate about nuclear power peaked during the 1970s and 1980s, when it "reached an intensity unprecedented in the history of technology controversies", in some countries.[25][26]
Proponents argue that nuclear power is a sustainable energy source which reduces carbon emissions and can increase energy security if its use supplants a dependence on imported fuels.[27] Proponents advance the notion that nuclear power produces virtually no air pollution, in contrast to the chief viable alternative of fossil fuel. Proponents also believe that nuclear power is the only viable course to achieve energy independence for most Western countries. They emphasize that the risks of storing waste are small and can be further reduced by using the latest technology in newer reactors, and the operational safety record in the Western world is excellent when compared to the other major kinds of power plants.[28]
Opponents say that nuclear power poses many threats to people and the environment. These threats include health risks and environmental damage from uranium mining, processing and transport, the risk of nuclear weapons proliferation or sabotage, and the unsolved problem of radioactive nuclear waste.[29][30][31] The environment issue is also regarding discharge of hot water into the sea. The hot water modifies the environmental conditions for the marine flora fauna. They also contend that reactors themselves are enormously complex machines where many things can and do go wrong, and there have been many serious nuclear accidents.[32][33] Critics do not believe that these risks can be reduced through new technology.[34] They argue that when all the energy-intensive stages of the nuclear fuel chain are considered, from uranium mining to nuclear decommissioning, nuclear power is not a low-carbon electricity source.[35][36][37]
Reprocessing[edit]
Main article: Nuclear reprocessing
Nuclear reprocessing technology was developed to chemically separate and recover fissionable plutonium from irradiated nuclear fuel.[38] Reprocessing serves multiple purposes, whose relative importance has changed over time. Originally reprocessing was used solely to extract plutonium for producing nuclear weapons. With the commercialization of nuclear power, the reprocessed plutonium was recycled back into MOX nuclear fuel for thermal reactors.[39] The reprocessed uranium, which constitutes the bulk of the spent fuel material, can in principle also be re-used as fuel, but that is only economic when uranium prices are high or disposal is expensive. Finally, the breeder reactor can employ not only the recycled plutonium and uranium in spent fuel, but all the actinides, closing the nuclear fuel cycle and potentially multiplying the energy extracted from natural uranium by more than 60 times.[40]
Nuclear reprocessing reduces the volume of high-level waste, but by itself does not reduce radioactivity or heat generation and therefore does not eliminate the need for a geological waste repository. Reprocessing has been politically controversial because of the potential to contribute to nuclear proliferation, the potential vulnerability to nuclear terrorism, the political challenges of repository siting (a problem that applies equally to direct disposal of spent fuel), and because of its high cost compared to the once-through fuel cycle.[41] In the United States, the Obama administration stepped back from President Bush's plans for commercial-scale reprocessing and reverted to a program focused on reprocessing-related scientific research.[42]
Accident indemnification[edit]
The Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage puts in place an international framework for nuclear liability.[43] However states with a majority of the world's nuclear power stations, including the U.S., Russia, China and Japan, are not party to international nuclear liability conventions.
In the U.S., insurance for nuclear or radiological incidents is covered (for facilities licensed through 2025) by the Price-Anderson Nuclear Industries Indemnity Act.
Under the Energy policy of the United Kingdom through its Nuclear Installations Act of 1965, liability is governed for nuclear damage for which a UK nuclear licensee is responsible. The Act requires compensation to be paid for damage up to a limit of 150 million by the liable operator for ten years after the incident. Between ten and thirty years afterwards, the Government meets this obligation. The Government is also liable for additional limited cross-border liability (about 300 million) under international conventions (Paris Convention on Third Party Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy and Brussels Convention supplementary to the Paris Convention).[44]
Decommissioning[edit]
Main article: Nuclear decommissioning
Nuclear decommissioning is the dismantling of a nuclear power station and decontamination of the site to a state no longer requiring protection from radiation for the general public. The main difference from the dismantling of other power stations is the presence of radioactive material that requires special precautions to remove and safely relocate to a waste repository.
Warranty period of operation of nuclear power stations is 30 years.[45] One of the wear factors is the deterioration of the reactors shell under the action of neutron bombardment.[45]
Generally speaking, nuclear stations were designed for a life of about 30years.[46] Newer stations are designed for a 40 to 60-year operating life.[47]
Decommissioning involves many administrative and technical actions. It includes all clean-up of radioactivity and progressive demolition of the station. Once a facility is decommissioned, there should no longer be any danger of a radioactive accident or to any persons visiting it. After a facility has been completely decommissioned it is released from regulatory control, and the licensee of the station no longer has responsibility for its nuclear safety.
Historic accidents[edit]
Main article: Nuclear power accidents by country
The 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster in Japan, the worst nuclear accident in 25 years, displaced 50,000 households after radiation leaked into the air, soil and sea.[48] Radiation checks led to bans of some shipments of vegetables and fish.[49]
The nuclear industry says that new technology and oversight have made nuclear station much safer, but 57 small accidents have occurred since the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 until 2008. Two thirds of these mishaps occurred in the US.[17] The French Atomic Energy Agency (CEA) has concluded that technical innovation cannot eliminate the risk of human errors in nuclear station operation.[citation needed]
According to Benjamin Sovacool, an interdisciplinary team from MIT in 2003 estimated that given the expected growth of nuclear power from 2005  2055, at least four serious nuclear accidents would be expected in that period.[17] However the MIT study does not take into account improvements in safety since 1970.[19][20]
Flexibility of nuclear power stations[edit]
Nuclear stations are used primarily for base load because of economic considerations. The fuel cost of operations for a nuclear station is smaller than the fuel cost for operation of coal or gas plants. There is no cost saving if you run a nuclear station at less than full capacity.[citation needed]
However, nuclear stations are routinely used in load following mode on a large scale in France, although "it is generally accepted that this is not an ideal economic situation for nuclear stations."[50] UnitA at the German Biblis Nuclear Power Plant is designed to in- and decrease its output 15% per minute between 40 and 100% of its nominal power.[51] Boiling water reactors normally have load-following capability, implemented by varying the recirculation water flow.[citation needed]
Future power stations[edit]
A new generation of designs for nuclear power stations, known as the Generation IV reactors, are the subject of active research. Many of these new designs specifically attempt to make fission reactors cleaner, safer and/or less of a risk to the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Passively safe stations (such as the ESBWR) are available to be built[52] and other reactors that are designed to be nearly fool-proof are being pursued.[53] Fusion reactors, which are still in the early stages of development, diminish or eliminate some of the risks associated with nuclear fission.[54]
Two 1600 MWe European Pressurized Reactors (EPRs) are being built in Europe, and two are being built in China. The reactors are a joint effort of French AREVA and German Siemens AG, and will be the largest reactors in the world. One EPR is in Olkiluoto, Finland, as part of the Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant. The reactor was originally scheduled to go online in 2009, but has been repeatedly delayed,[55][56] and as of September 2014 has been pushed back to 2018.[57] Preparatory work for the EPR at the Flamanville Nuclear Power Plant in Flamanville, Manche, France was started in 2006, with a scheduled completion date of 2012.[58] The French reactor has also been delayed, and was projected, in 2013, to launch in 2016.[59][60] The two Chinese EPRs are part of the Taishan Nuclear Power Plant in Taishan, Guangdong. The Taishan reactors were scheduled to go online in 2014 and 2015,[61] but that has been delayed to 2017.[62]
As of March 2007[update], there are seven nuclear power stations under construction in India, and five in China.[63]
In November 2011 Gulf Power stated that by the end of 2012 it hopes to finish buying off 4000 acres of land north of Pensacola, Florida in order to build a possible nuclear power station.[64]
In 2010 Russia launched a floating nuclear power station. The 100 million vessel, the Akademik Lomonosov, is the first of seven stations that will bring vital energy resources to remote Russian regions.[65]
By 2025, Southeast Asia nations would have a total of 29 nuclear power stations, Indonesia will have 4 nuclear power stations, Malaysia 4, Thailand 5 and Vietnam 16 from nothing at all in 2011.[66]
In 2013 China had 32[67] nuclear reactors under construction, the highest number in the world.
Expansion at two Nuclear Power Stations in the United States, Vogtle and V. C. Summer Nuclear Power Station, located in Georgia and South Carolina, respectively, are scheduled to be completed between 2016 and 2019. The two new Vogtle reactors, and the two new reactors at Virgil C. Summer Nuclear Station, represent the first nuclear power construction projects in the United States since the Three Mile Island nuclear accident in 1979.
Several countries have begun Thorium-based nuclear power programs. Thorium is four times more abundant within nature than uranium. Over 60% of thorium's ore monazite is found in five countries: Australia, the United States, India, Brazil, and Norway. These thorium resources are enough to power current energy needs for thousands of years.[68] The thorium fuel cycle is able to generate nuclear energy with a lower output of radiotoxic waste than the uranium fuel cycle.[69]
See also[edit]
Energy portal
List of nuclear reactors
List of nuclear power stations (> 1,000 MW net capacity)
Auxiliary feedwater
Gerald W. Brown, American whistleblower on passive fire protection/circuit integrity deficiencies in US and Canadian plants
Containment building
Fossil-fuel power station
Nuclear fuel cycle
Nuclear Information and Resource Service
Nuclear power by country
Nuclear Regulatory Commission of the USA
Safety engineering
SCRAM
U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Uranium market
References[edit]
^ "PRIS - Home". Iaea.org. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ "World Nuclear Power Reactors 2007-08 and Uranium Requirements". World Nuclear Association. 2008-06-09. Archived from the original on March 3, 2008. Retrieved 2008-06-21.
^ World Nuclear Association; The economics of nuclear Power, updated July 2012
^ "Graphite Reactor". 31 October 2013.
^ "Graphite Reactor Photo Gallery". 31 October 2013.
^ "First Atomic Power Plant at X-10 Graphite Reactor". 31 October 2013.
^ "Russia's Nuclear Fuel Cycle". world-nuclear.org. Retrieved 1 November 2015.
^ "Queen switches on nuclear power". BBC Online. 17 October 2008. Retrieved 1 April 2012.
^ William, Kaspar et al. (2013). A Review of the Effects of Radiation on Microstructure and Properties of Concretes Used in Nuclear Power Plants. Washington, D.C.: Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research.
^ "How nuclear power works". HowStuffWorks.com. Retrieved September 25, 2008.
^ the largest nuclear generating facility in the world
^ a b Kidd, Steve (January 21, 2011). "New reactorsmore or less?". Nuclear Engineering International.
^ Ed Crooks (12 September 2010). "Nuclear: New dawn now seems limited to the east". Financial Times. Retrieved 12 September 2010.
^ The Future of Nuclear Power. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 2003. ISBN0-615-12420-8. Retrieved 2006-11-10.
^ Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2011). "The Future of the Nuclear Fuel Cycle" (PDF). p.xv.
^ Daniel E Whitney (2003). "Normal Accidents by Charles Perrow" (PDF). Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
^ a b c Benjamin K. Sovacool (January 2011). "Second Thoughts About Nuclear Power" (PDF). National University of Singapore. p.8.
^ Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2003). "The Future of Nuclear Power" (PDF). p.48.
^ a b http://www.uvm.edu/~vlrs/Energy/NuclearPower.pdf
^ a b Massachusetts Institute of Technology (2003). "The Future of Nuclear Power" (PDF). p.49.
^ MacKenzie, James J. (December 1977). "Review of The Nuclear Power Controversy by Arthur W. Murphy". The Quarterly Review of Biology. 52 (4): 4678. doi:10.1086/410301. JSTOR2823429.
^ Walker, J. Samuel (10 January 2006). Three Mile Island: A Nuclear Crisis in Historical Perspective. University of California Press. pp.1011. ISBN978-0-520-24683-6.
^ In February 2010 the nuclear power debate played out on the pages of the New York Times, see A Reasonable Bet on Nuclear Power and Revisiting Nuclear Power: A Debate and A Comeback for Nuclear Power?
^ In July 2010 the nuclear power debate again played out on the pages of the New York Times, see Were Not Ready Nuclear Energy: The Safety Issues
^ Kitschelt, Herbert P. (1986). "Political Opportunity and Political Protest: Anti-Nuclear Movements in Four Democracies" (PDF). British Journal of Political Science. 16 (1): 57. doi:10.1017/S000712340000380X.
^ Jim Falk (1982). Global Fission: The Battle Over Nuclear Power, Oxford University Press.
^ U.S. Energy Legislation May Be `Renaissance' for Nuclear Power.
^ Bernard Cohen. "The Nuclear Energy Option". Retrieved 2009-12-09.
^ "Nuclear Energy is not a New Clear Resource.". Theworldreporter.com. 2010-09-02.
^ Greenpeace International and European Renewable Energy Council (January 2007). Energy Revolution: A Sustainable World Energy Outlook, p. 7.
^ Giugni, Marco (2004). Social protest and policy change: ecology, antinuclear, and peace movements in comparative perspective. Rowman & Littlefield. pp.44. ISBN978-0-7425-1827-8.
^ Stephanie Cooke (2009). In Mortal Hands: A Cautionary History of the Nuclear Age, Black Inc., p. 280.
^ Sovacool, Benjamin K. (2008). "The costs of failure: A preliminary assessment of major energy accidents, 19072007". Energy Policy. 36 (5): 180220. doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2008.01.040.
^ Jim Green . Nuclear Weapons and 'Fourth Generation' Reactors Chain Reaction, August 2009, pp. 18-21.
^ Kleiner, Kurt (October 2008). "Nuclear energy: assessing the emissions" (PDF). Nature Reports. 2: 1301. ] ', Vol. , , pp. .
^ Mark Diesendorf (2007). Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy, University of New South Wales Press, p. 252.
^ Mark Diesendorf. Is nuclear energy a possible solution to global warming?
^ Andrews, A. (2008, March 27). Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing: U.S. Policy. CRS Report For Congress. Retrieved March 25, 2011, from www.fas.org/sgp/crs/nuke/RS22542
^ MOX fuel can extend the energy extracted by about 12% and slightly reduces plutonium stocks. Information from the World Nuclear Association about MOX
^ "Supply of Uranium". World Nuclear Association. Retrieved 2010-01-29.
^ Harold Feiveson; et al. (2011). "Managing nuclear spent fuel: Policy lessons from a 10-country study". Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.
^ "Adieu to nuclear recycling". Nature. 9 July 2009. doi:10.1038/460152b.
^ "Publications: International Conventions and Legal Agreements". iaea.org. Retrieved 1 November 2015.
^ Nuclear section of the UK Department of Trade & Industry's website
^ a b " ". sovsekretno.ru. Retrieved 1 November 2015.
^ "Nuclear Decommissioning: Decommission nuclear facilities". World-nuclear.org. Retrieved 2013-09-06.
^ "Table 2. Quote: Designed operational life time (year) 60" (PDF). uxc.com. p.489.
^ Tomoko Yamazaki and Shunichi Ozasa (June 27, 2011). "Fukushima Retiree Leads Anti-Nuclear Shareholders at Tepco Annual Meeting". Bloomberg.
^ Mari Saito (May 7, 2011). "Japan anti-nuclear protesters rally after PM call to close plant". Reuters.
^ Steve Kidd. Nuclear in France - what did they get right? Nuclear Engineering International, June 22, 2009.
^ Robert Gerwin: Kernkraft heute und morgen: Kernforschung und Kerntechnik als Chance unserer Zeit. (english Nuclear power today and tomorrow: Nuclear research as chance of our time) In: Bild d. Wissenschaft. Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, 1971. ISBN 3-421-02262-3.
^ "Next-generation Nuclear Technology: The ESBWR" (PDF). American Nuclear Society. Retrieved September 25, 2008.
^ Elmer-Dewitt, Philip (1991-04-29). "How to Build a Safer Reactor". TIME.com. Retrieved September 25, 2008.(subscription required)
^ "Fusion energy: the agony, the ecstasy and alternatives". PhysicsWorld.com. November 7, 1997. Retrieved October 27, 2014.(subscription required)
^ Finland nuclear reactor delayed again, Business Week, 4 December 2006
^ Areva to take 500 mln eur charge for Finnish reactor delay, Forbes, 5 December 2006
^ "Olkiluoto 3 startup pushed back to 2018". World Nuclear News. 1 September 2014. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ "Construction of Flamanville EPR begins". World Nuclear News. 4 December 2007. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ "Flamanville EPR vessel delivered". World Nuclear News. 7 October 2013. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ Patel, Tara; Bakewell, Sally (22 October 2013). "U.K. Nuclear Future Relies on Reactor Plagued by Delays: Energy". Bloomberg.com. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ "Taishan generator stator lift". World Nuclear NEws. 11 October 2013. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ "EDF hopes French EPR will launch before Chinese reactors". Reuters. 31 July 2014. Retrieved 28 October 2014.
^ Harris, Emily (May 24, 2007). "Progress on Finnish Nuclear Reactor Lags". NPR News. Retrieved October 27, 2014.
^ "Possible North Escambia Gulf Power Nuclear Plant Faces Fight". northescambia.com. Retrieved 1 November 2015.
^ "Login". timesonline.co.uk. Retrieved 1 November 2015.
^ "Indonesia planning to have four nuke power plants by 2025". Retrieved October 23, 2011.
^ "PRIS - Country Details". Iaea.org. Retrieved 2013-09-24.
^ Juhasz, Albert J.; Rarick, Richard A.; Rangarajan, Rajmohan. "High Efficiency Nuclear Power Plants Using Liquid Fluoride Thorium Reactor Technology" (PDF). NASA. Retrieved 27 October 2014.
^ Sokolov, F.; Fukuda, K.; Nawada, H.P. "Thorium fuel cycle  Potential benefits and challenges" (PDF). International Atomic Energy Agency. Retrieved 27 October 2014.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Nuclear power plant.
IPPNW - International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War (Nobel Peace Prize 1985)
MAPW - Information on Australia's research reactor
Freeview Video 'Nuclear Power Plants - What's the Problem' A Royal Institution Lecture by John Collier by the Vega Science Trust.
Non Destructive Testing for Nuclear Power Plants
Web-based simple nuclear power plant game
Uranium.Info publishing uranium price since 1968.
Information about all NPP in the world
U.S. plants and operators
SCK.CEN Belgian Nuclear Research Centre in Mol.
Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage - World Nuclear Association
Glossary of Nuclear Terms
Protection against Sabotage of Nuclear Facilities: Using Morphological Analysis in Revising the Design Basis Threat From the Swedish Morphological Society
Critical Hour: Three Mile Island, The Nuclear Legacy, And National Security Online book by Albert J. Fritsch, Arthur H. Purcell, and Mary Byrd Davis (2005). Updated edition June 2006
An Interactive VR Panorama of the cooling towers at Temelin Nuclear Power Plant, Czech Republic
Interactive map with all nuclear power plants US and worldwide (Note: missing many plants)
Map with all nuclear power plants US and worldwide (Note: active, not active and under construction)
v
t
e
Nuclear power by country
GWe > 10
Canada
China
France
Germany
Japan
Russia
South Korea
Ukraine
United States
GWe > 2
Belgium
Czech Republic
Finland
India
Taiwan
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom
GWe > 1
Argentina
Brazil
Bulgaria
Hungary
Mexico
Romania
Slovakia
South Africa
GWe < 1
Armenia
Iran
Netherlands
Pakistan
Slovenia
Planned
Albania
Algeria
Bangladesh
Belarus
Chile
Indonesia
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Lithuania
Morocco
Myanmar
Nigeria
North Korea
Poland
Syria
Saudi Arabia
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Tunisia
Turkey
UAE
Vietnam
Abandoning
plans for
new plants
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Cuba
Georgia
Ghana
Ireland
Kuwait
Libya
Oman
Peru
Portugal
Singapore
Taiwan
Venezuela
Phasing-out
Austria [already]
Belgium
Germany
Italy [already]
Spain
Switzerland
Taiwan
Other opposed
Australia
Denmark
Greece
Ireland
Israel
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Luxembourg
Malaysia
Malta
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
List of nuclear power stations
Nuclear energy policy
Nuclear energy policy by country
Nuclear accidents
Nuclear technology portal
v
t
e
Nuclear technology
Science
Chemistry
Engineering
Physics
Atomic nucleus
Fission
Fusion
Radiation
ionizing
braking
Fuel
Tritium
Deuterium
Helium-3
Fertile material
Fissile material
Isotope separation
Uranium
enriched
depleted
Plutonium
Thorium
Neutron
Activation
Capture
Poison
Cross section
Generator
Radiation
Reflector
Temperature
Thermal
Fast
Fusion
Power
by country
Power plant
Economics
Multi-Mission Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator
Accidents and incidents
Policy
Fusion
Radioisotope thermoelectric (RTG)
Propulsion
rocket
Safety and security
Medicine
Imaging
-camera
RadBall
Scintigraphy
Single-photon emission (SPECT)
Positron-emission tomography (PET scan)
X-ray
Projectional radiography
Computed tomography
Therapy
Fast-neutron
Neutron capture therapy of cancer
Targeted alpha-particle
Proton-beam
Tomotherapy
Brachytherapy
Radiation therapy
Radiosurgery
Radiopharmacology
Weapons
Topics
Arms race
Delivery
Design
Disarmament
Ethics
Explosion
effects
History
Proliferation
Testing
high-altitude
underground
Warfare
Yield
TNTe
Lists
States with nuclear weapons
Tests
United States
WMD treaties
Weapon-free zones
Weapons
Waste
Products
Actinide
Reprocessed uranium
Reactor-grade plutonium
Minor actinide
Activation
Fission
LLFP
Actinide chemistry
Disposal
Fuel cycle
High-level (HLW)
Low-level (LLW)
Repository
Reprocessing
Spent fuel
pool
cask
Transmutation
Debate
Nuclear power
Nuclear weapons
Blue Ribbon Commission on America's Nuclear Future
Anti-nuclear movement
Uranium mining
Nuclear power phase-out
Nuclear reactors
Fission
by primary moderator
Light water
Natural fission reactor
Aqueous homogeneous reactor
Boiling
BWR
Advanced (ABWR)
ESBWR
Pressurized
AP1000
APR-1400
CPR-1000
EPR
OPR-1000
VVER
Supercritical (SCWR)
Heavy water
CANDU
Advanced (AHWR)
Pressurized (PHWR)
Steam-generating (SGHWR)
WR-1
Graphite
by coolant
Water
H2O
RBMK
EGP-6
Gas
CO2
Uranium Naturel Graphite Gaz (UNGG)
Magnox
Advanced gas-cooled (AGR)
He
Ultra-high-temperature experiment (UHTREX)
Pebble-bed (PBMR) (HTR-PM)
Gas-turbine modular-helium (GTMHR)
Very-high-temperature (VHTR)
Molten-salt
FLiBe
Fuji MSR
Liquid-fluoride thorium reactor (LFTR)
Molten-Salt Reactor Experiment (MSRE)
Integral Molten Salt Reactor (IMSR)
None
(fast)
Breeder (FBR)
Integral (IFR)
Liquid-metal-cooled (LMFR)
Small sealed transportable autonomous (SSTAR)
Traveling-wave (TWR)
Energy Multiplier Module (EM2)
Reduced-moderation (RMWR)
Fast Breeder Test Reactor (FBTR)
Generation IV
Sodium (SFR)
BN-600
BN-800
BN-1200
PFBR
CEFR
Lead (LFR)
Helium gas (GFR)
Others
Organically moderated and cooled reactor
Aircraft Reactor Experiment
Fusion
by confinement
Magnetic
Field-reversed configuration
Levitated dipole
Reversed field pinch
Spheromak
Stellarator
Tokamak
Inertial
Bubble (acoustic)
Fusor
electrostatic
Laser-driven
Magnetized-target
Z-pinch
Other
Dense plasma focus
Migma
Muon-catalyzed
Polywell
Pyroelectric
Category
Portal
Commons
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Automatic generation control
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
v
t
e
Natural resources
Air
Pollution/ quality
Ambient standards (USA)
Index
Indoor
developing nations
Law
Clean Air Act (USA)
Ozone depletion
Emissions
Airshed
Trading
Deforestation (REDD)
Energy
Law
Resources
Fossil fuels(peak oil)
Geothermal
Nuclear
Solar
sunlight
shade
Tidal
Wave
Wind
Land
Arable
peak farmland
Degradation
Law
property
Management
habitat conservation
Minerals
mining
law
sand
peak
rights
Soil
conservation
fertility
health
resilience
Use
planning
reserve
Life
Biodiversity
Bioprospecting
Biosphere
Bushfood
Bushmeat
Fisheries
law
management
Food
Forests
genetic resources
law
management
Game
law
Gene bank
Herbalist plants
Marine conservation
Non-timber forest products
Rangeland
Seed bank
Wildlife
conservation
management
Wood
Water
Types/ location
Aquifer
storage and recovery
Drinking
Fresh
Groundwater
pollution
recharge
remediation
Hydrosphere
Ice
bergs
glacial
polar
Irrigation
Rain
harvesting
Stormwater
Surface water
Wastewater
reclaimed
Aspects
Desalination
Floods
Law
Leaching
Sanitation
Conflict
Conservation
Pollution
Privatization
Quality
Right
Resources
management
policy
Related
Common land
common-pool
enclosure
global
tragedy theory
Economics
ecological
Ecosystem services
Exploitation
overexploitation
Management
adaptive
Natural capital
accounting
Nature reserve
Systems ecology
Urban ecology
Wilderness
Resource
Conflict (perpetuation)
Curse
Depletion
Extraction
Nationalism
Renewable/ Non-renewable
Portals
Agriculture and agronomy
Energy
Environment
Fishing
Forestry
Mining
Water
Wetlands
Category
agencies
law
management
ministries
organizations
Colleges
Natural resources
Authority control
GND: 4030329-9
NDL: 00959930
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1196
Cached time: 20161120100817
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.828 seconds
Real time usage: 0.948 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 5218/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 344010/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 24802/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 20/40
Expensive parser function count: 8/500
Lua time usage: 0.384/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.95 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
748.378
1 - -total
43.95%
328.948
1 - Template:Reflist
19.51%
145.996
29 - Template:Cite_web
16.11%
120.556
19 - Template:Navbox
15.84%
118.551
6 - Template:Citation_needed
14.40%
107.796
6 - Template:Fix
11.65%
87.187
1 - Template:Nuclear_technology
11.29%
84.524
1 - Template:Navbox_with_collapsible_groups
8.02%
60.019
6 - Template:Delink
7.97%
59.676
13 - Template:Cite_news
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:207347-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120100848 and revision id 750534649
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Nuclear_power_plant&oldid=750534649"
Categories: Nuclear power stationsAmerican inventionsSoviet inventionsRussian inventionsHidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only contentPages using ISBN magic linksArticles containing potentially dated statements from April 2014All articles containing potentially dated statementsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from June 2011Articles with unsourced statements from August 2014Articles with unsourced statements from September 2016Articles with unsourced statements from June 2013Articles with unsourced statements from October 2015Articles with unsourced statements from March 2011Articles containing potentially dated statements from March 2007Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers