Oceanenergy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Ocean energy)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Part of a series on
Renewable energy
Biofuel
Biomass
Geothermal
Hydropower
Solar energy
Tidal power
Wave power
Wind power
Topics by country
100% renewable energy
Marketing and policy trends
v
t
e
Marine energy or marine power (also sometimes referred to as ocean energy, ocean power, or marine and hydrokinetic energy) refers to the energy carried by ocean waves, tides, salinity, and ocean temperature differences. The movement of water in the worlds oceans creates a vast store of kinetic energy, or energy in motion. This energy can be harnessed to generate electricity to power homes, transport and industries.
The term marine energy encompasses both wave power i.e. power from surface waves, and tidal power i.e. obtained from the kinetic energy of large bodies of moving water. Offshore wind power is not a form of marine energy, as wind power is derived from the wind, even if the wind turbines are placed over water.
The oceans have a tremendous amount of energy and are close to many if not most concentrated populations. Ocean energy has the potential of providing a substantial amount of new renewable energy around the world.[1]Energy from the ocean is also known as hydroelectricity.
Contents
1 Global potential
2 Forms of ocean energy
2.1 Renewable
2.1.1 Marine current power
2.1.2 Osmotic power
2.1.3 Ocean thermal energy
2.1.4 Tidal power
2.1.5 Wave power
2.2 Non-renewable
3 Marine energy development
4 Environmental effects
5 See also
6 References
7 Further reading
8 External links
Global potential[edit]
There is the potential to develop 20,00080,000 terawatt-hours (TWh) of electricity generated by changes in ocean temperatures, salt content, movements of tides, currents, waves and swells[2]
Global potential
Form
Annual
generation
Tidal energy
>300 TWh
Marine current power
>800 TWh
Osmotic power Salinity gradient
2,000 TWh
Ocean thermal energy Thermal gradient
10,000 TWh
Wave energy
8,00080,000 TWh
Source: IEA-OES, Annual Report 2007[3]
Indonesia as archipelagic country with three quarter of the area is ocean, has 49GW recognized potential ocean energy and has 727GW theoretical potential ocean energy.[4]
Forms of ocean energy[edit]
Renewable[edit]
The oceans represent a vast and largely untapped source of energy in the form of surface waves, fluid flow, salinity gradients, and thermal.
Marine and Hydrokinetic (MHK) or marine energy development in U.S. and international waters includes projects using the following devices:
Wave power converters in open coastal areas with significant waves;
Tidal turbines placed in coastal and estuarine areas;
In-stream turbines in fast-moving rivers;
Ocean current turbines in areas of strong marine currents;
Ocean thermal energy converters in deep tropical waters.
Marine current power[edit]
Main article: Marine current power
Strong ocean currents are generated from a combination of temperature, wind, salinity, bathymetry, and the rotation of the Earth. The Sun acts as the primary driving force, causing winds and temperature differences. Because there are only small fluctuations in current speed and stream location with no changes in direction, ocean currents may be suitable locations for deploying energy extraction devices such as turbines.
Ocean currents are instrumental in determining the climate in many regions around the world. While little is known about the effects of removing ocean current energy, the impacts of removing current energy on the farfield environment may be a significant environmental concern. The typical turbine issues with blade strike, entanglement of marine organisms, and acoustic effects still exists; however, these may be magnified due to the presence of more diverse populations of marine organisms using ocean currents for migration purposes. Locations can be further offshore and therefore require longer power cables that could affect the marine environment with electromagnetic output.[5]
Osmotic power[edit]
Main article: Osmotic power
At the mouth of rivers where fresh water mixes with salt water, energy associated with the salinity gradient can be harnessed using pressure-retarded reverse osmosis process and associated conversion technologies. Another system is based on using freshwater upwelling through a turbine immersed in seawater, and one involving electrochemical reactions is also in development.
Significant research took place from 1975 to 1985 and gave various results regarding the economy of PRO and RED plants. It is important to note that small-scale investigations into salinity power production take place in other countries like Japan, Israel, and the United States. In Europe the research is concentrated in Norway and the Netherlands, in both places small pilots are tested. Salinity gradient energy is the energy available from the difference in salt concentration between freshwater with saltwater. This energy source is not easy to understand, as it is not directly occurring in nature in the form of heat, waterfalls, wind, waves, or radiation.[6]
Ocean thermal energy[edit]
Main article: Ocean thermal energy
Water typically varies in temperature from the surface warmed by direct sunlight to greater depths where sunlight cannot penetrate. This differential is greatest in tropical waters, making this technology most applicable in water locations. A fluid is often vaporized to drive a turbine that may generate electricity or produce desalinized water. Systems may be either open-cycle, closed-cycle, or hybrid.[7]
Tidal power[edit]
Main article: Tidal power
The energy from moving masses of water  a popular form of hydroelectric power generation. Tidal power generation comprises three main forms, namely: tidal stream power, tidal barrage power, and dynamic tidal power.
Wave power[edit]
Main article: Wave power
Solar energy from the Sun creates temperature differentials that result in wind. The interaction between wind and the surface of water creates waves, which are larger when there is a greater distance for them to build up. Wave energy potential is greatest between 30 and 60 latitude in both hemispheres on the west coast because of the global direction of wind. When evaluating wave energy as a technology type, it is important to distinguish between the four most common approaches: point absorber buoys, surface attenuators, oscillating water columns, and overtopping devices.[8]
The wave energy sector is reaching a significant milestone in the development of the industry, with positive steps towards commercial viability being taken. The more advanced device developers are now progressing beyond single unit demonstration devices and are proceeding to array development and multi-megawatt projects.[9] The backing of major utility companies is now manifesting itself through partnerships within the development process, unlocking further investment and, in some cases, international co-operation.
At a simplified level, wave energy technology can be located near-shore and offshore. Wave energy converters can also be designed for operation in specific water depth conditions: deep water, intermediate water or shallow water. The fundamental device design will be dependent on the location of the device and the intended resource characteristics.
Non-renewable[edit]
Petroleum and natural gas beneath the ocean floor are also sometimes considered a form of ocean energy. An ocean engineer directs all phases of discovering, extracting, and delivering offshore petroleum (via oil tankers and pipelines,) a complex and demanding task. Also centrally important is the development of new methods to protect marine wildlife and coastal regions against the undesirable side effects of offshore oil extraction.
Marine energy development[edit]
The UK is leading the way in wave and tidal (marine) power generation. The world's first marine energy test facility was established in 2003 to kick start the development of the marine energy industry in the UK. Based in Orkney, Scotland, the European Marine Energy Centre (EMEC) has supported the deployment of more wave and tidal energy devices than at any other single site in the world. The Centre was established with around 36 million of funding from the Scottish Government, Highlands and Islands Enterprise, the Carbon Trust, UK Government, Scottish Enterprise, the European Union and Orkney Islands Council, and is the only accredited wave and tidal test centre for marine renewable energy in the world, suitable for testing a number of full-scale devices simultaneously in some of the harshest weather conditions while producing electricity to the national grid.
Clients that have tested at the centre include Aquamarine Power, AW Energy, Pelamis Wave Power, Seatricity, ScottishPower Renewables and Wello on the wave site, and Alstom (formerly Tidal Generation Ltd), ANDRITZ HYDRO Hammerfest, Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Magallanes, Nautricity, Open Hydro, Scotrenewables Tidal Power, and Voith on the tidal site.
Leading the 11m FORESEA (Funding Ocean Renewable Energy through Strategic European Action) project, which provides funding support to ocean energy technology developers to access Europe's world-leading ocean energy test facilities, EMEC will welcome a number of wave and tidal clients to their pipeline for testing on site.
Beyond device testing, EMEC also provides a wide range of consultancy and research services, and is working closely with Marine Scotland to streamline the consenting process for marine energy developers. EMEC is at the forefront in the development of international standards for marine energy, and is forging alliances with other countries, exporting its knowledge around the world to stimulate the development of a global marine renewables industry.[10]
Environmental effects[edit]
Common environmental concerns associated with marine energy developments include:
the risk of marine mammals and fish being struck by tidal turbine blades[11]
the effects of EMF and underwater noise emitted from operating marine energy devices[12]
the physical presence of marine energy projects and their potential to alter the behavior of marine mammals, fish, and seabirds with attraction or avoidance
the potential effect on nearfield and farfield marine environment and processes such as sediment transport and water quality[13]
The Tethys database provides access to scientific literature and general information on the potential environmental effects of marine energy.[14]
See also[edit]
Renewable Energy portal
Sustainable development portal
Energy harvesting
Hydropower
Marine current power
Renewable energy
Renewable energy commercialization
References[edit]
^ Carbon Trust, Future Marine Energy. Results of the Marine Energy Challenge: Cost competitiveness and growth of wave and tidal stream energy, January 2006
^ "Oceanpotential". International Energy Agency (IEA). Archived from the original on 2015-05-22. Retrieved 2016-08-08.
^ "Implementing Agreement on Ocean Energy Systems (IEA-OES), Annual Report 2007" (PDF). International Energy Agency, Jochen Bard ISET. 2007. p.5. Archived from the original on 1 July 2015.
^ Indonesian Ocean Energy
^ "Tethys".
^ http://www.oceanenergy-europe.eu/index.php/policies/technologies/13-technology/46-salinity-gradient
^ "Tethys".
^ "Tethys".
^ http://www.oceanenergy-europe.eu/
^ http://www.emec.org.uk/
^ http://tethys.pnnl.gov/stressor/dynamic-device
^ http://tethys.pnnl.gov/stressor/emf
^ "Tethys".
^ "Tethys".
Further reading[edit]
Omar Ellabban, Haitham Abu-Rub, Frede Blaabjerg: Renewable energy resources: Current status, future prospects and their enabling technology. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 39, (2014), 748764, doi:10.1016/j.rser.2014.07.113.
External links[edit]
The Ocean Energy Systems Implementing Agreement
European Ocean Energy Association
The European Marine Energy Centre (EMEC)
Ocean Energy Council
SuperGen UK Centre for Marine Energy Research
Marine Energy Times, information website
Tethys - Environmental Effects of Renewable Energy from the Sea
v
t
e
Ocean energy
Wave power
Australia
New Zealand
Tidal power
New Zealand
Annapolis Royal Generating Station
Other
Marine current power
Offshore construction
Ocean thermal energy conversion
Osmotic power
Pelamis wave energy converter
SDE Sea Waves Power Plant
Wind power (offshore)
Wave farm
Ocean energy
Portals: Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
v
t
e
Electricity delivery
Concepts
Availability factor
Base load
Black start
Capacity factor
Demand factor
Droop speed control
Demand management
EROEI
Fault
Grid storage
Intermittency
Load factor
Load following
Nameplate capacity
Peak demand
Power quality
Power-flow study
Repowering
Variability
Sources
Nonrenewable
Coal
Fossil-fuel power station
Natural gas
Petroleum
Nuclear
Oil shale
Renewable
Biomass
Biofuel
Geothermal
Hydro
Marine
Current
Osmotic
Thermal
Tidal
Wave
Solar
Wind
Generation
AC power
Cogeneration
Combined cycle
Cooling tower
Induction generator
Micro CHP
Microgeneration
Rankine cycle
Three-phase electric power
Virtual power plant
Transmission
and distribution
Blackout (Rolling blackout)
Brownout
Demand response
Distributed generation
Dynamic demand
Electric power distribution
Electric power system
Electric power transmission
Electrical grid
High-voltage direct current
Load management
Pumped hydro
Power station
Power storage
Smart grid
Substation
Super grid
Transformer
Transmission system operator (TSO)
Transmission tower
Utility pole
Protective
devices
Arc-fault_circuit_interrupter
Earth leakage circuit breaker
Residual-current device (GFI)
Power-system protection
Protective relay
Digital protective relay
Sulfur hexafluoride circuit breaker
Economics
and policies
Carbon offset
Cost of electricity by source
Ecotax
Energy subsidies
Feed-in tariff
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Net metering
Pigovian tax
Renewable Energy Certificates
Renewable energy payments
Renewable energy policy
Spark spread
Categories
Electric power distribution
Electricity economics
Power station technology
Portals
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
v
t
e
Physical oceanography
Waves
Airy wave theory
Ballantine scale
BenjaminFeir instability
Boussinesq approximation
Breaking wave
Clapotis
Cnoidal wave
Cross sea
Dispersion
Edge wave
Equatorial waves
Fetch
Gravity wave
Green's law
Infragravity wave
Internal wave
Kelvin wave
Kinematic wave
Longshore drift
Luke's variational principle
Mild-slope equation
Radiation stress
Rogue wave
Rossby wave
Rossby-gravity waves
Sea state
Seiche
Significant wave height
Sneaker wave
Soliton
Stokes boundary layer
Stokes drift
Stokes wave
Swell
Trochoidal wave
Tsunami
megatsunami
Undertow
Ursell number
Wave action
Wave base
Wave height
Wave power
Wave radar
Wave setup
Wave shoaling
Wave turbulence
Wavecurrent interaction
Waves and shallow water
one-dimensional Saint-Venant equations
shallow water equations
Wind wave
model
Circulation
Atmospheric circulation
Baroclinity
Boundary current
Coriolis effect
Downwelling
Eddy
Ekman layer
Ekman spiral
Ekman transport
El Nio Southern Oscillation
General Circulation Model
Geostrophic current
Global Ocean Data Analysis Project
Gulf Stream
Halothermal circulation
Humboldt Current
Hydrothermal circulation
Langmuir circulation
Longshore drift
Loop Current
Maelstrom
Modular ocean model
Ocean dynamics
Ocean gyre
Princeton ocean model
Rip current
Subsurface currents
Sverdrup balance
Thermohaline circulation
shutdown
Upwelling
Whirlpool
World Ocean Circulation Experiment
Tides
Amphidromic point
Earth tide
Head of tide
Internal tide
Lunitidal interval
Perigean spring tide
Rip tide
Rule of twelfths
Slack water
Tidal bore
Tidal force
Tidal power
Tidal race
Tidal range
Tidal resonance
Tide gauge
Tideline
Landforms
Abyssal fan
Abyssal plain
Atoll
Bathymetric chart
Coastal geography
Cold seep
Continental margin
Continental rise
Continental shelf
Contourite
Guyot
Hydrography
Oceanic basin
Oceanic plateau
Oceanic trench
Passive margin
Seabed
Seamount
Submarine canyon
Submarine volcano
Plate tectonics
Convergent boundary
Divergent boundary
Fracture zone
Hydrothermal vent
Marine geology
Mid-ocean ridge
Mohorovii discontinuity
VineMatthewsMorley hypothesis
Oceanic crust
Outer trench swell
Ridge push
Seafloor spreading
Slab pull
Slab suction
Slab window
Subduction
Transform fault
Volcanic arc
Ocean zones
Benthic
Deep ocean water
Deep sea
Littoral
Mesopelagic
Oceanic
Pelagic
Photic
Surf
Sea level
Deep-ocean Assessment and Reporting of Tsunamis
Future sea level
Global Sea Level Observing System
North West Shelf Operational Oceanographic System
Sea-level curve
Sea level rise
World Geodetic System
Acoustics
Deep scattering layer
Hydroacoustics
Ocean acoustic tomography
Sofar bomb
SOFAR channel
Underwater acoustics
Satellites
Jason-1
Jason-2 (Ocean Surface Topography Mission)
Jason-3
Related
Argo
Benthic lander
Color of water
DSV Alvin
Marginal sea
Marine energy
Marine pollution
Mooring
National Oceanographic Data Center
Ocean
Ocean exploration
Ocean observations
Ocean reanalysis
Ocean surface topography
Ocean thermal energy conversion
Oceanography
Pelagic sediment
Sea surface microlayer
Sea surface temperature
Seawater
Science On a Sphere
Thermocline
Underwater glider
Water column
World Ocean Atlas
Category
Commons
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1187
Cached time: 20161118170032
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.204 seconds
Real time usage: 0.261 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1345/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 75830/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 1179/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.063/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 3.81 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
172.998
1 - -total
33.38%
57.743
1 - Template:Reflist
25.88%
44.766
7 - Template:Cite_web
21.97%
38.016
4 - Template:Navbox
13.54%
23.424
1 - Template:Renewable_energy_sources
12.71%
21.992
1 - Template:Sidebar
10.67%
18.451
1 - Template:Electricity_generation
8.25%
14.268
1 - Template:Use_dmy_dates
7.58%
13.111
1 - Template:Ocean_energy
6.63%
11.466
5 - Template:Main
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:23676013-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118170032 and revision id 748275374
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Marine_energy&oldid=748275374"
Categories: Water powerMarine energyOceanographical terminologyHidden categories: Use dmy dates from January 2011