Oilpalm
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Oil palm)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For the Greek goddess of oil, see Elais
"Oil palm" redirects here. For other uses, see List of plants known as oil palm.
Elaeis
African Oil Palm (Elaeis guineensis)
Scientific classification
Kingdom:
Plantae
Order:
Arecales
Family:
Arecaceae
Subfamily:
Arecoideae
Tribe:
Cocoeae
Genus:
Elaeis
Jacq.
Species
Elaeis guineensis Jacq.
Elaeis oleifera (Kunth) Corts
Synonyms[1]
Corozo Jacq. ex Giseke
Alfonsia Kunth
Elaeis (from Greek, meaning "oil") is a genus of palms containing two species, called oil palms. They are used in commercial agriculture in the production of palm oil. The African oil palm Elaeis guineensis (the species name guineensis referring to its country of origin) is the principal source of palm oil, it is native to west and southwest Africa, occurring between Angola and Gambia. The American oil palm Elaeis oleifera (from Latin oleifer, meaning "oil-producing")[2] is native to tropical Central and South America,[3] and is used locally for oil production.
Contents
1 Description
2 Species
3 Commercial palm oil cultivation
4 See also
5 References
Description[edit]
Mature palms are single-stemmed, and can grow well over 20m (66ft) tall. The leaves are pinnate, and reach between 35m (1016ft) long. The flowers are produced in dense clusters; each individual flower is small, with three sepals and three petals.
The palm fruit is reddish, about the size of a large plum, and grows in large bunches. Each fruit is made up of an oily, fleshy outer layer (the pericarp), with a single seed (the palm kernel), also rich in oil.
Species[edit]
The two species, E. guineensis and E. oleifera can produce fertile hybrids. The genome of E. guineensis has been sequenced, which has important implications for breeding improved strains of the crop plants.[4]
Commercial palm oil cultivation[edit]
Main article: Palm Oil
Since palm oil contains more saturated fats than oils made from canola, corn, linseed, soybeans, safflower, and sunflowers, it can withstand extreme deep-frying heat and resists oxidation.[5] It contains no trans fat, and its use in food has increased as food-labelling laws have changed to specify trans fat content. Oil from Elaeis guineensis is also used as biofuel.
Human use of oil palms may date back about 5,000 years in coastal west Africa. Palm oil was also discovered in the late 19th century by archaeologists in a tomb at Abydos dating back to 3000 BCE.[6] It is thought that Arab traders brought the oil palm to Egypt.[7]
Elaeis guineensis is now extensively cultivated in tropical countries outside Africa, particularly Malaysia and Indonesia which together produce most of the world supply. Palm oil plantations are under increasing scrutiny for social and environmental harm, particularly because rainforests with high biodiversity are destroyed, greenhouse gas output is increased, and because people are displaced by unscrupulous palm-oil enterprises. Especially in Indonesia, there is also growing pressure for palm oil producers to prove that they are not harming rare animals in the cultivation process.[8]
See also[edit]
Attalea maripa, another oil-producing palm
Journal of Oil Palm Research
Energy and the environment
List of Arecaceae genera
Social and environmental impact of palm oil
References[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Elaeis.
^ "World Checklist of Selected Plant Families".
^ Gledhill, David (2008). The Name of Plants (4 ed.). Cambridge: University Press. p.279.
^ Collins Guide to Tropical Plants, ISBN 0-00-219112-1
^ Singh, R.; Ong-Abdullah, M.; Low, E.-T.L.; Manaf, M.A.A.; Rosli, R.; Nookiah, R.; Ooi, L.C.-L.; Ooi, S.-E.; Chan, K.-L.; Halim, M.A.; Azizi, N.; Nagappan, J.; Bacher, B.; Lakey, N.; Smith, S.W.; He, D.; Hogan, M.; Budiman, M.A.; Lee, E.K.; DeSalle, R.; Kudrna, D.; Goicoechea, J.L.; Wing, R.A.; Wilson, R.K.; Fulton, R.S.; Ordway, J.M.; Martienssen, R.A.; Sambanthamurthi, R. (2013). "Oil palm genome sequence reveals divergence of interfertile species in Old and New worlds". Nature. advance online publication. doi:10.1038/nature12309.
^ De Marco, Elena; Savarese, Maria; Parisini, Cristina; Battimo, Ilaria; Falco, Salvatore; Sacchi, Raffaele (2007). "Frying performance of a sunflower/palm oil blend in comparison with pure palm oil". European Journal of Lipid Science and Technology. 109 (3): 237. doi:10.1002/ejlt.200600192.
^ Kiple, Kenneth F.; Conee Ornelas, Kriemhild, eds. (2000). The Cambridge World History of Food. Cambridge University Press. ISBN0521402166. Retrieved 30 August 2012.
^ Obahiagbon, F.I. (2012). "A Review: Aspects of the African Oil Palm (Elaeis guineesis Jacq.)" (PDF). American Journal of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology: 114. doi:10.3923/ajbmb.2012. Retrieved 30 August 2012.
^ http://www.npr.org/sections/goatsandsoda/2015/04/21/396815303/palm-oil-plantations-are-blamed-for-many-evils-but-change-is-coming
v
t
e
Palm oil
Oil palms
Attalea
A. maripa
Elaeis
E. guineesis
E. oleifera
Diseases and
pests
Bagworm moth
Basal stem rot (Ganoderma orbiforme)
Cadang-cadang disease
Little leaf syndrome
Oryctes rhinoceros
Rhynchophorus palmarum
Oil palm bunch moth
Tirathaba mundella
Tirathaba rufivena
Red ring disease (Bursaphelenchus cocophilus)
Components
Mesocarp
Palm kernel
oil
lauric acid
Palm oil
stearin
stearic acid
linoleic acid
myristic acid
oleic acid
palmitic acid
Processes
Fractionation
Hydrolysis
Milling
Refining
Saponification
Transesterification
Products
Biodiesel
by region
NExBTL
Bioplastics
Cellulosic ethanol
Girl Scout Cookies
Oleochemicals
Vegetable oil
cooking
fuel
Organisations
Producers
Bumitama Agri
Cargill
Equatorial Palm Oil
Federal Global Ventures (FGV)
Feronia Inc.
IOI Group
Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad
Sime Darby
Wilmar International
Buyers/ processors
AAK
GreenPalm
Neste
Unilever
Governmental/
non-governmental
FELDA
The Forest Trust
Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange
Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
Malaysian Palm Oil Board
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
Policies, impacts
and debates
Biodiesel impacts
Biofuel policy (Malaysia)
Biofuels issues
Certified sustainable palm oil
Deforestation
haze
Food vs. fuel
Social and environmental impacts
Vegetable oils as alternative energy
By country
Colombia
Indonesia
Malaysia
Portals: Agriculture
Energy
Food
Forestry
Category
by country
Commons
Authority control
NDL: 00575510
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:347092-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161117114612 and revision id 738362074
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Elaeis&oldid=738362074"
Categories: Oil palmFlora of Sierra LeoneHidden categories: Pages using ISBN magic linksArticles with 'species' microformatsCommons category with local link same as on Wikidata