PaulJames(academic)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Paul James (born 1958, Melbourne), is Professor of Globalization and Cultural Diversity at Western Sydney University, and Director of the Institute for Culture and Society where he has been since 2014.[1] He is a writer on globalization, sustainability, and social theory.
Contents
1 Background
2 Contributions
3 Recognition
4 References
5 External links
Background[edit]
After studying politics at the University of Melbourne James was a lecturer in the Department of Politics at Monash University, Melbourne before moving to Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology in 2002 as Professor of Globalization and Cultural Diversity.[2] At RMIT he led and secured funding for several successful initiatives, including the Global Cities Institute (Director, 20062013); the UN Global Compact Cities Programme (Director, 20072014); and the Globalism Institute (Founding Director, 2002-2007; now, the Centre for Global Research) that brought scholars including Tom Nairn, Manfred Steger, Heikki Patomki and Nevzat Soguk to RMIT.[3]
He was appointed to a research position at the University of Western Sydney in 2014.[4]
He was Director of the United Nations Global Compact Cities Programme, a UN International Secretariat with offices in Sydney, Melbourne and New York until 2014.[5]
Contributions[edit]
James is primarily known as a theorist of globalization, particularly how local and national communities alter under an emergent level of global integration. His work has been read as challenging the simple notion of 'global flows' presented by other writers such Zygmunt Bauman and Arjun Appadurai.[6] Using a distinctive comparative method called 'constitutive abstraction' or 'engaged theory', he has contributed to theories of political culture, the changing nature of community, and the structures and subjectivities of social formation. He is author or editor of more than 30 books, including a Sage Publications series on globalization. The series, Central Currents in Globalization, is a collection of writings by key figures in the field of globalization. His collaborative work includes writing with other senior scholars such as Jonathan Friedman, Peter Mandaville, Tom Nairn, Heikki Patomki, Manfred Steger and Christopher Wise, amongst others. His main contribution in the field of global studies is the book Globalism, Nationalism, Tribalism.[7]
He co-edits Arena Journal (1986present), a publication concerned with understanding the crisis-ridden transformations of our time, and is on the board of a dozen other journals.[8]
His work also contributes empirically to understanding contemporary politics and culture, particularly in Australia, East Timor, and Papua New Guinea. His research on sustainable community development laid part of the foundation for the 2007 legislation that went through the Papua New Parliament,[9] and was developed by the Minister for Community Development at the time, Dame Carol Kidu.
As Director of the UN Global Compact Cities Programme, James also works in the cross-over fields of urban sustainability and sustainable development.[10] He argues against the mainstream view that 'smart cities' are necessarily better or more sustainable cities, suggesting instead that it is the integration of learning and practice which makes for intelligent and sustainable cities.[11] Along these lines he is quoted as saying that London used the 2012 Olympics in an intelligent way 'where the economy, politics and culture thrive, aided by good transport and a strong information technology infrastructure, all built on a platform of ecological sustainability'.[12]
Consistent with this approach, he is one of the key developers of the 'Circles of Sustainability' method used by a number of cities around the world to respond to relatively intractable or complex issues.[13] That method takes the emphasis away from economic growth and suggests that cities should rather be aiming for social sustainability, including cultural resilience, political vibrancy, economic prosperity and ecological adaptation.[14] Here his key contribution is Urban Sustainability in Theory and Practice: Circles of Sustainability.[15]
As Research Director of Global Reconciliation (2009present), an organization dedicated to global dialogue and community-level practice, he has (with Paul Komesaroff) contributed to redefining the concept of 'reconciliation'. Instead of an emphasis on reconciliation as an event of testimony and contrition, the Global Reconciliation Foundation treats reconciliation as an ongoing process of dialogue and practice across the boundaries of continuing difference.[16] In 2002, James, Komesaroff, and a management team led by Peter Phipps and Haris Halilovich, ran the first national reconciliation forum in Bosnia Hercegovina. In October 2012, James, Komesaroff and Suresh Sudram, together with a team in Australia and Sri Lanka ran the first national civil-society reconciliation forum in Sri Lanka since the end of the war. This followed a Reconciliation Summit on the Middle East held in Amman, Jordan in 2009, organized by Komesaroff and James.[17]
Because his work has a general reach, criticisms of James work tend to take the form of rebukes for what he does not do or challenges to take seriously mainstream considerations such as citizenship and social movement success.[18] For example, describing Jamess book written with Tom Nairn, Global Matrix, Claudia Aradau (2007, p. 371) initially writes positively that: Contradiction remains however the structuring principle of the book and a method of analysis. It allows the authors to think alternatives from the field of our own ideological determinations (Balibar, 2004, p. 25)". However, she then goes onto to criticize the authors for failing to consider citizenship as one of the missing conceptions in the range of alternatives to the world in crisis that the authors describe.
In a similar vein, Bihku Parekh says that despite his comprehensive coverage, "James does not explore how the nation and the state are internally related such that the apparently strange idea of the nation-state was considered self-evident by many."[19]
Recognition[edit]
Fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts (2010present)
Melbourne Ambassador (2010present)
Collaborating Advisor to the Minister for Community Development of Papua New Guinea (2004-2010); including contributing to drafting the Ministers New Policy Document (2004) and the Corporate Plan (2004-2007)[20]
Bronze Medal, Beyond the Frontiers of Knowledge, awarded to the Community Sustainability International Project, Malaysia, by the University of Malaya (2005)
Member of the G20 Advisory Group to the Canadian Prime Minister (2004)
Crisp Medal by the Australasian Political Studies Association for the best book in the field of political studies (1996)
Australian Research Council Fellowship (1994-1996)
Japan-Australia Foundation Fellowship (1991)
References[edit]
^ http://www.uws.edu.au/ics/people/researchers/professor_paul_james
^ "James, Professor. Paul - RMIT University". Rmit.edu.au. Retrieved 2013-04-19.
^ "About the Globalism Research Centre - RMIT University". Rmit.edu.au. Retrieved 2013-04-19.
^ http://www.uws.edu.au/staff_profiles/uws_profiles/professor_paul_james
^ "The Cities Programme". The Cities Programme. Retrieved 2013-04-19.
^ Bude, Heinz, and Jrg Durrschmidt. (2010). What is Wrong with Globalization? Contra flow speak - Towards and Existential Turn in the Theory of Globalization, European Journal of Social Theory 13 (4), 2010: 481500.
^ James, Paul (2006). Globalism, Nationalism, Tribalism: Bringing Theory Back InVolume 2 of Towards a Theory of Abstract Community. London: Sage Publications.
^ http://arena.org.au/category/arena-journal/
^ The National, 11 January 2007, The National, 22 May 2009.
^ "Economist Debates: Cities: Statements". Economist.com. 2011-01-11. Retrieved 2013-04-19.
^ Bruno Berthon, Smart Cities: Can they Work? The Guardian, 1 June 2011.
^ Matthew Saltmarsh, Will Olympics Save East London, New York Times, 28 July 2011.
^ Amen, Mark, Noah J. Toly, Patricia L. Carney and Klaus Segbers, eds. (2011). Cities and Global Governance, Ashgate, Farnham.
^ Oliver Balch, Forget Economic Growth, We need real Prosperity Instead, The Guardian, 9 May 2013. http://www.guardian.co.uk/sustainable-business/forget-economic-growth-real-prosperity-instead. See also, Tania Brangan, The Biggest Movement in History, The Guardian, 7 October 2011 and Tania Branigan, China Becomes an Urban Nation at Breakneck Speed, The Guardian, 2 October 2011.
^ James, Paul; with Magee, Liam; Scerri, Andy; Steger, Manfred B. (2015). Urban Sustainability in Theory and Practice: Circles of Sustainability. London: Routledge..
^ Rothfield, Philipa, Cleo Fleming, Paul A. Komesaroff, eds. 2008. Pathways to Reconciliation: Between Theory and Practice, Ashgate, Aldershot.
^ Martin Flanagan, Embracing the Wave of Compassion, The Age, 9 October 2010.
^ Roland Bleiker, Global Matrix, Australian Book Review, JuneJuly 2006; Tristan Clayton, Global Matrix, Environment and Planning C: Government and Policy, vol. 23, no. 5, 2005, pp. 7878; William Safran, Nation Formation, Canadian Review of Studies in Nationalism, Vol. 29, Nos 1-2, 2002, pp. 16163; Lars Bo Kaspersen, Nation Formation, The European Journal of Development Research, 2000; Paul Reynolds, Nation Formation, Capital and Class, no. 67, 1999, pp. 1967; Bernt Jonsson, Politics of Differences, Equality and Religion, New Routes, vol. 3, no. 2, 1998, pp. 256;Philip Smith, Nation Formation, in Journal of Sociology, 34, 1, 1998, pp. 879; Andrew Vandenberg, `Nation Formation in Forum, no. 7, 1996, p. 5.
^ Parekh, Bhikhu. 1998. Nation Formation, Nations and Nationalism 4(2): 274
^ Progress should start in Communities, says Klapat, The National, 11 January 2007; Study on PNG Villages Published, The National, 22 May 2009.
External links[edit]
Academia - articles available for downloading
Cities Programme, UN Global Compact
"Economist Debate on Urban Growth". The Economist.
Globalism Research Centre, RMIT University
v
t
e
Globalization
Books
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Outline
Studies
Terms
Writers
Aspects
Alter-globalization
Anti-globalization
Counter-hegemonic globalization
Cultural globalization
Deglobalization
Democratic globalization
Economic globalization
Environmental globalization
Financial globalization
Global citizenship
education
Global governance
Global health
History of globalization
archaic
early modern
Military globalization
Political globalization
Trade globalization
Workforce globalization
Issues
Global
Disease
Digital divide
Labor arbitrage
Population
Warming
Water crisis
Other
Brain drain
reverse
Climate change
Climate justice
Development aid
Economic inequality
Endangered languages
Fair trade
Forced migration
Human rights
Illicit financial flows
Invasive species
Investor-state disputes
New international division of labour
NorthSouth divide
Offshoring
Race to the bottom
pollution havens
Transnational crime
McDonaldization
Westernization
American imperialism
British Empire
World war
Theories
Capital accumulation
Dependency
Development
Earth system
Fiscal localism
Modernization
ecological
history of
Primitive accumulation
Social change
World history
World-systems
Notable
scholars
Samir Amin
Arjun Appadurai
K. Anthony Appiah
Daniele Archibugi
Giovanni Arrighi
Ravi Batra
Jean Baudrillard
Zygmunt Bauman
Ulrich Beck
Walden Bello
Jagdish Bhagwati
Robert Brenner
Manuel Castells
Noam Chomsky
Alfred Crosby
Christopher Chase-Dunn
Andre G. Frank
Thomas Friedman
Anthony Giddens
Peter Gowan
Michael Hardt
David Harvey
David Held
Paul Hirst
Michael Hudson
Paul James
Ibn Khaldun
Naomi Klein
Antonio Negri
Jeffrey Sachs
Saskia Sassen
John R. Saul
Vandana Shiva
Joseph Stiglitz
John Urry
Immanuel Wallerstein
George Ritzer
Portal
Category
Commons
WikiProject
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:31746335-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161023063454 and revision id 726445514
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Paul_James_(academic)&oldid=726445514"
Categories: University of Western Sydney facultyLiving peopleWriters about globalizationScholars of nationalismAustralian political scientists1958 birthsAcademic journal editorsOntologistsCritical theorists