PetroleumConservationResearchAssociation
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (August 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
The Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) is an organization established in India in 1978, under the aegis of the Indian Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, engaged in promoting energy efficiency in various sectors of the economy. It helps the government in proposing policies and strategies aimed at reducing India's dependency on oil, in order both to save money and to reduce the environmental impact of oil use.
Mandate[edit]
India's demand for petroleum products is increasing at a rate of approximately 3-4% per annum. Some of this usage, the PCRA argues, is avoidable: it sponsored a project in Delhi which demonstrated that fuel worth Rs. 994 cr per annum is being burnt at traffic signals due to idling of vehicles at red lights. Energy efficiency measures to reduce by 2% India's use of petroleum products, worth Rs. 4 Lakh Crores per annum, could save the country's Rs. 8,000 Crores worth of imports.
The PCRA is mandated to promote popular awareness of the importance of energy conservation. It cites an international acceptance that energy efficiency measures, like turning off car engines at traffic signals and driving at speeds of 4550km/h, could help most countries to reduce their use of petroleum products by 20%. The PCRA promotes a nationwide mass media awareness campaign titled Save Fuel Yaani Save Money, broadcast on television, radio, and in newspapers. The campaign mascot, Yaani, is a piggy bank, representing saving. The PCRA took the campaign to the India International Trade Fair  09, where the PCRA stall featured interactive games and quizzes to promote energy efficiency.
--Vision
To become a center of excellence for conservation of hydrocarbons & environment protection for sustainable development on our inherent strength.
--Mission
Efficient energy utilization and environment protection leading to Improvement in Quality of Life.
--Objectives
1)To formulate strategies and promote measures for accelerating conservation of petroleum products leading to environment protection, energy security and sustainable development.
2)To create awareness among masses about the importance, benefits and methods of conserving petroleum products & clean environment by enhancing information and capacity building.
3)To promote research, development and deployment efforts aimed at petroleum conservation & environment protection, support & facilitate efforts for adoption and dissemination of fuel efficient technologies and substitution of petroleum products with alternate fuels and renewable.
4)To establish synergistic institutional linkages at the national & international levels in the areas of petroleum conservation & environment protection.
5)To provide training and technical advisory services, designed to achieve economy & efficiency in use of petroleum products for cleaner environment.
6)To function as a Think Tank to the Govt. of India for proposing policies and strategies on petroleum conservation and environment protection aimed at reducing excessive dependence on oil
External links[edit]
PCRA website
This article about energy, its collection, its distribution, or its uses is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it.
v
t
e
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:27217839-0!*!0!!*!4!* and timestamp 20161110075316 and revision id 748769423
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Petroleum_Conservation_Research_Association&oldid=748769423"
Categories: Government agencies for energy (India)Petroleum in IndiaMinistry of Petroleum and Natural GasEnergy stubsHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from August 2010All stub articles