Populus
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Not to be confused with Liriodendron tulipifera (tulip poplar), the source of poplar wood.
For the market research company, see Populus Ltd. For other uses, see Populus (disambiguation).
Populus
A leaf of Populus tremula
Scientific classification
Kingdom:
Plantae
(unranked):
Angiosperms
(unranked):
Eudicots
(unranked):
Rosids
Order:
Malpighiales
Family:
Salicaceae
Tribe:
Saliceae[1]
Genus:
Populus
L.
Type species
Populus tremula
Sections and Species
See text
Populus is a genus of 2535 species of deciduous flowering plants in the family Salicaceae, native to most of the Northern Hemisphere. English names variously applied to different species include poplar /pp.lr/, aspen, and cottonwood.
In the September 2006 issue of Science Magazine, the Joint Genome Institute announced that the western balsam poplar (P. trichocarpa) was the first tree whose full DNA code had been determined by DNA sequencing.[2]
Contents
1 Description
2 Ecology
3 Classification
3.1 Selected species
4 Cultivation
4.1 India
5 Uses
5.1 Manufacturing
5.2 Energy
5.3 Art and literature
5.4 Resistance against termites
5.5 Land management
5.6 Agriculture
6 See also
7 References
Description[edit]
The genus has a large genetic diversity, and can grow from 1550m (49164ft) tall, with trunks up to 2.5m (8ft 2in) in diameter.
Male catkins of Populus x canadensis
The bark on young trees is smooth, white to greenish or dark grey, and often has conspicuous lenticels; on old trees, it remains smooth in some species, but becomes rough and deeply fissured in others. The shoots are stout, with (unlike in the related willows) the terminal bud present. The leaves are spirally arranged, and vary in shape from triangular to circular or (rarely) lobed, and with a long petiole; in species in the sections Populus and Aigeiros, the petioles are laterally flattened, so that breezes easily cause the leaves to wobble back and forth, giving the whole tree a "twinkling" appearance in a breeze. Leaf size is very variable even on a single tree, typically with small leaves on side shoots, and very large leaves on strong-growing lead shoots. The leaves often turn bright gold to yellow before they fall during autumn.[3][4]
The flowers are mostly dioecious (rarely monoecious) and appear in early spring before the leaves. They are borne in long, drooping, sessile or pedunculate catkins produced from buds formed in the axils of the leaves of the previous year. The flowers are each seated in a cup-shaped disk which is borne on the base of a scale which is itself attached to the rachis of the catkin. The scales are obovate, lobed, and fringed, membranous, hairy or smooth, and usually caducous. The male flowers are without calyx or corolla, and comprise a group of four to 60 stamens inserted on a disk; filaments are short and pale yellow; anthers are oblong, purple or red, introrse, and two-celled; the cells open longitudinally. The female flower also has no calyx or corolla, and comprises a single-celled ovary seated in a cup-shaped disk. The style is short, with two to four stigmata, variously lobed, and numerous ovules. Pollination is by wind, with the female catkins lengthening considerably between pollination and maturity. The fruit is a two- to four-valved dehiscent capsule, green to reddish-brown, mature in midsummer, containing numerous minute light brown seeds surrounded by tufts of long, soft, white hairs which aid wind dispersal.[3][5]
Ecology[edit]
Poplars of the cottonwood section are often wetlands or riparian trees. The aspens are among the most important boreal broadleaf trees.[3]
Poplars and aspens are important food plants for the larvae of a large number of Lepidoptera species. Pleurotus populinus, the aspen oyster mushroom, is found exclusively on dead wood of Populus trees in North America.
Classification[edit]
A Populus on a hill through April, September, October, February (Germany)
The genus Populus has traditionally been divided into six sections on the basis of leaf and flower characters;[4][6] this classification is followed below. Recent genetic studies have largely supported this, confirming some previously suspected reticulate evolution due to past hybridisation and introgression events between the groups. Some species (noted below) had differing relationships indicated by their nuclear DNA (paternally inherited) and chloroplast DNA sequences (maternally inherited), a clear indication of likely hybrid origin.[7] Hybridisation continues to be common in the genus, with several hybrids between species in different sections known.[3][8]
Selected species[edit]
Populus nigra in autumn
Populus section Populus  aspens and white poplar (circumpolar subarctic and cool temperate, and mountains farther south, white poplar warm temperate)
Populus tremula  aspen, common aspen, Eurasian aspen, European aspen, quaking aspen (Europe, northern Asia)
Populus adenopoda  Chinese aspen (eastern Asia)
Populus alba  white poplar (Southern Europe to central Asia)
Populus  canescens (P. alba  P. tremula)  grey poplar
Populus spp. X (see "spp.")  Pacific albus (North America)
Populus davidiana  Korean aspen (eastern Asia)
Populus grandidentata  bigtooth aspen (Eastern North America)
Populus sieboldii  Japanese aspen (eastern Asia)
Populus tremuloides  quaking aspen or trembling aspen (North America)
Populus section Aigeiros  black poplars, some of the cottonwoods (North America, Europe, western Asia; temperate)
Populus deltoides  eastern cottonwood (Eastern North America)
Populus fremontii  Fremont cottonwood (Western North America)
Populus nigra  black poplar (Europe), placed here by nuclear DNA; cpDNA places it in sect. Populus (including Populus afghanica)
Populus  canadensis (P. deltoides  P. nigra)  hybrid black poplar
Populus  inopina (P. nigra  P. fremontii)  hybrid black poplar
Leaves of Populus lasiocarpa
Populus section Tacamahaca  balsam poplars (North America, Asia; cool temperate)
Populus angustifolia  willow-leaved poplar or narrowleaf cottonwood (Central North America)
Populus balsamifera  Ontario balsam poplar (northern North America) (= P. candicans, P. tacamahaca)
Populus cathayana  (northeast Asia)
Populus koreana J.Rehnder  Korean poplar (northeast Asia)
Populus laurifolia  laurel-leaf poplar (central Asia)
Populus maximowiczii A.Henry  Maximowicz' poplar, Japanese poplar (northeast Asia)
Populus simonii  Simon's poplar (northeast Asia)
Populus suaveolens Fischer  Mongolian poplar (northeast Asia)
Populus szechuanica  Sichuan poplar (northeast Asia), placed here by nuclear DNA; cpDNA places it in sect. Aigeiros
Populus trichocarpa  western balsam poplar or black cottonwood (western North America)
Populus tristis (northeast Asia), placed here by nuclear DNA; cpDNA places it in sect. Aigeiros
Populus ussuriensis  Ussuri poplar (northeast Asia)
Populus yunnanensis  Yunnan poplar (east Asia)
Populus section Leucoides  necklace poplars or bigleaf poplars (Eastern North America, eastern Asia; warm temperate)
Populus heterophylla  downy poplar (southeastern North America)
Populus lasiocarpa  Chinese necklace poplar (eastern Asia)
Populus wilsonii  Wilson's poplar (eastern Asia)
Populus section Turanga  subtropical poplars (Southwest Asia, east Africa; subtropical to tropical)
Populus euphratica  Euphrates poplar (North Africa, southwest and central Asia)
Populus ilicifolia  Tana River poplar (East Africa)
Populus section Abaso  Mexican poplars (Mexico; subtropical to tropical)
Populus guzmanantlensis (Mexico)
Populus mexicana  Mexico poplar (Mexico)
Cultivation[edit]
Fastigiate black poplar cultivar of the Plantierensis group, in Hungary
Poplars dominate the flora of Khorog City Park, GBAO, Tajikistan
Many poplars are grown as ornamental trees, with numerous cultivars used. They have the advantage of growing to a very large size at a rapid pace. Almost all poplars take root readily from cuttings or where broken branches lie on the ground (they also often have remarkable suckering abilities, and can form huge colonies from a single original tree, such as the famous Pando forest made of thousands of Populus tremuloides clones).
Trees with fastigiate (erect, columnar) branching are particularly popular, and are widely grown across Europe and southwest Asia. However, like willows, poplars have very vigorous and invasive root systems stretching up to 40m from the trees; planting close to houses or ceramic water pipes may result in damaged foundations and cracked walls and pipes due to their search for moisture.
A simple, reproducible, high-frequency micropropagation protocol in eastern cottonwood Populus deltoides has been reported by Yadav et al. 2009[9]
India[edit]
Popular Populus variety G48 in Punjab, India; Jhalli Farms Village Niara/Hoshiarpur
In India, the poplar is grown commercially by farmers, mainly in the Punjab region. Common poplar varieties are:
G48 (grown in the plains of Punjab, Haryana, UP)
w22 (grown in mountainous regions, e.g., Himachal Pradesh, Pathankot, Jammu)
The trees are grown from kalam or cuttings, harvested annually in January and February, and commercially available up to 15November.
Most commonly used to make plywood, Yamuna Nagar in Haryana state has a large plywood industry reliant upon poplar. It is graded according to sizes known as "over" (over 24 inches (610mm)), "under" (1824 inches (460610mm)), and "sokta" (less than 18 inches (460mm)).
Uses[edit]
Traditional Pamiris house
Although the wood from Populus is known as poplar wood, a common high-quality hardwood "poplar" with a greenish colour is actually from an unrelated genus Liriodendron. Populus wood is a lighter, more porous material.
Its flexibility and close grain make it suitable for a number of applications, similar to those for willow. The Greeks and Etruscans made shields of poplar, and Pliny also recommended poplar for this purpose.[10] Poplar continued to be used for shield construction through the Middle Ages and was renowned for a durability similar to that of oak, but at a substantial reduction in weight.
Manufacturing[edit]
In many areas, fast-growing hybrid poplars are grown on plantations for pulpwood
Poplar is widely used for the manufacture of paper.[11]
It is also sold as inexpensive hardwood timber, used for pallets and cheap plywood; more specialised uses include matches and the boxes in which Camembert cheese is sold.
Poplar wood is also widely used in the snowboard industry for the snowboard core, because it has exceptional flexibility, and is sometimes used in the bodies of electric guitars and drums.
Poplar wood, particularly when seasoned, makes a good hearth for a bow drill.
Due to its high tannic acid content, the bark has been used in Europe for tanning leather.[5]
Poplar wood can be used to produce chopsticks or wooden shoes.
Baking moulds from peeled poplar may be used in the freezer, oven, or microwave oven.[12]
Energy[edit]
Interest exists in using poplar as an energy crop for biomass or biofuel, in energy forestry systems, particularly in light of its high energy-in to energy-out ratio, large carbon mitigation potential, and fast growth.
Rotor poplar and willow cuttings planter, planting a new nursery of poplar for biomass with short rotation
In the United Kingdom, poplar (as with fellow energy crop willow) is typically grown in a short rotation coppice system for two to five years (with single or multiple stems), then harvested and burned - the yield of some varieties can be as high as 12 oven-dry tonnes per hectare every year[13]
Art and literature[edit]
Poplar was the most common wood used in Italy for panel paintings; the Mona Lisa and most famous early renaissance Italian paintings are on poplar. The wood is generally white, often with a slightly yellowish colour.
Some stringed instruments are made with one-piece poplar backs; violas made in this fashion are said[citation needed] to have a particularly resonant tone. Similarly, though typically it is considered to have a less attractive grain than the traditional sitka spruce, poplar is beginning to be targeted by some harp luthiers as a sustainable and even superior alternative for their sound boards:[14] in these cases another hardwood veneer is sometimes applied to the resonant poplar base both for cosmetic reasons, and supposedly to fine-tune the acoustic properties.
Two notable poems in English lament the cutting down of poplars, William Cowper's "The Poplar Field" and Gerard Manley Hopkins' "Binsey Poplars felled 1879".
Abel Meeropol's poem "Strange Fruit: mentions poplar trees in the context of lynching.
The Odd Poplers Alley, in Iai, Romania, is one of the spots where Mihai Eminescu sought inspiration in his works (the poem "Down Where the Lonely Poplars Grow"). In 1973, the 15 white poplars still left (with age ranges between 233 and 371 years) were declared natural monuments.[15]
Resistance against termites[edit]
In Pakistan, poplar is grown on commercial level by farmers in Punjab, Sindh, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Provinces. However, all varieties are seriously susceptible to termite attack, causing significant losses to poplar every year. Logs of poplar are therefore also used in termite traps (termaps) for biocontrol of termites in crops.
Land management[edit]
Lombardy poplars are frequently used as a windbreak around agricultural fields to protect against wind erosion.
Agriculture[edit]
Logs from the poplar provide a growing medium for shiitake mushrooms.[16]
See also[edit]
Poplar Walk, Christ Church Meadow, Oxford, England
Poplar Tree Incident
References[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Populus.
Wikispecies has information related to: Populus
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopdia Britannica article Poplar (tree).
^ "Genus Populus (poplars)". Taxonomy. UniProt. Retrieved 4 February 2010.
^ Joint Genome Institute, Populus trichocarpa
^ a b c d Meikle, R. D. (1984). Willows and Poplars of Great Britain and Ireland. BSBI Handbook No. 4. ISBN 0-901158-07-0.
^ a b Rushforth, K. (1999). Trees of Britain and rope. Collins ISBN 0-00-220013-9.
^ a b Keeler, H. L. (1900). Our Native Trees and How to Identify Them. New York: Charles Scriber's Sons. pp.410412.
^ Eckenwalder, J.E. (1996). "Systematics and evolution of Populus". In R.F. Stettler; H.D. Bradshaw; P.E. Heilman; T.M. Hinckley. Biology of Populus and its implications for management and conservation. Ottawa: NRC Research Press, National Research Council of Canada. ISBN9780660165066.
^ Hamzeh, M., & Dayanandan, S. (2004). Phylogeny of Populus (Salicaceae) based on nucleotide sequences of chloroplast TRNT-TRNF region and nuclear rDNA. Amer. J. Bot. 91: 1398-1408. Available online
^ Eckenwalder, J.E. (2001). "Key to species and main crosses". In D.I. Dickmann; J.G. Isebrands; J.E. Eckenwalder; J. Richardson. Poplar culture in North America. Ottawa: NRC Research Press. pp.325330. ISBN978-0-660-18145-5.
^ http://www.springerlink.com/content/553472252334p7kq/fulltext.pdf
^ [1] The Cambridge Companion to Archaic Greece, p.69.
^ Poplar cultivation in Europe
^ Aiken, Laura (18 April 2012). "Baking Bread Abroad". Bakers Journal. Simcoe, Ontario.
^ Aylott, Matthew J.; Casella, E; Tubby, I; Street, NR; Smith, P; Taylor, G (2008). "Yield and spatial supply of bioenergy poplar and willow short-rotation coppice in the UK" (PDF). New Phytologist. 178 (2 fvhc): 358370. doi:10.1111/j.1469-8137.2008.02396.x. PMID18331429. Retrieved 22 October 2008.
^ [2] Rees Harps Website, "Harp Myth #8".
^ Iai - the county of centuries-old trees
^ Shiitake growth studies performed by RMIT
v
t
e
Woodworking
Overviews
History
Glossary
Wood (lumber)
Wood art
Forms
Boat building
Bow and arrow
Bush carpentry
Cabinetry
Caning
Carpentry
Chainsaw carving
Chip carving
Clogs
bniste
Fretwork
Intarsia
Japanese carpentry
Log building
Marquetry
Millwork
Parquetry
Pyrography
Relief carving
Root carving
Sawdust
Segmented turning
Shingle weaving
Shipbuilding
Spindle turning
Timber framing
Whittling
Wood carving
Woodturning
Wood flour
Woods
Soft
Cedar (Calocedrus, Cedrus)
Cypress
Douglas fir
Fir
Juniper
Larch
Pine
Spruce
Yew
Hard
Ash
Alder
Aspen
Balsa
Beech
Birch
Cherry
Chestnut
Cocobolo
Ebony
Elm
Hazel
Lignum vitae
Linden (lime, basswood)
Mahogany
Maple
Oak
Padauk
Plum
Poplar
Teak
Totara
Walnut
Willow
Tools
Abrasives
Axe
Adze
Chisel
Clamp
Drawknife
Drill
Float
Mallet
Milling machine
Mitre box
Moulding plane
Plane
Rasp
Router
Sandpaper
Spokeshave
Timber-framing
Vise
Winding sticks
Wood scribe
Workbench
Saws
Backsaw
Bandsaw
Bow
Bucksaw
Chainsaw
Circular
Compass
Coping
Crosscut
Frame
Fretsaw
Jigsaw
Keyhole
Miter
Rip
Scroll
Veneer
Whipsaw
Geometry
Joints
Birdsmouth
Bridle
Butt
Butterfly
Coping
Crown of thorns
Dados
Dovetail
Finger
Groove
Halved
Hammer-headed tenon
Knee
Lap
Mason's mitre
Miter
Mortise and tenon
Rabbet/Rebate
Scarf
Splice
Tongue and groove
Profiles
Bead
Bevel
Chamfer
Molding
Ogee
Ogive
Treatments
French polish
Heat bending
Paint
Paint stripper
Steam bending
Thermal
Varnish
Wood drying
Wood preservation
Wood stain
Organizations
American Association of Woodturners
Architectural Woodwork Institute
British Woodworking Federation
Building and Wood Workers' International
Caricature Carvers of America
International Federation of Building and Wood Workers
National Wood Carvers Association
Society of Wood Engravers
Timber Framers Guild
Conversion
Chainsaw mill
Hewing
Sawmill
Whipsaw
Wood splitting
Techniques
Frame and panel
Frameless construction
Category
WikiProject
Commons
Authority control
NDL: 00569128
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1170
Cached time: 20161118130436
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.392 seconds
Real time usage: 0.496 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 5052/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 66958/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 3836/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 25/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.134/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 5.84 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
397.393
1 - -total
33.68%
133.861
1 - Template:Taxobox
29.88%
118.737
1 - Template:Taxobox/core
16.66%
66.203
1 - Template:Reflist
15.61%
62.046
14 - Template:Delink
15.41%
61.245
13 - Template:Taxobox_colour
8.41%
33.413
1 - Template:Cn
8.39%
33.333
8 - Template:Taxonomy
8.10%
32.207
1 - Template:If_empty
7.76%
30.818
5 - Template:Convert
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:94248-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118130435 and revision id 744862219
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Populus&oldid=744862219"
Categories: PopulusDioecious plantsEudicot generaHidden categories: Pages using ISBN magic linksArticles with 'species' microformatsAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from July 2011Commons category with local link same as on WikidataUse dmy dates from May 2011