Processcontrol
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}See also: Control theory
This article does not cite any sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Main article: Automation
Example of control system of a continuous stirred-tank reactor.
Control panel of a nuclear reactor.
Process control is an engineering discipline that deals with architectures, mechanisms and algorithms for maintaining the output of a specific process within a desired range. For instance, the temperature of a chemical reactor may be controlled to maintain a consistent product output.
Process control is extensively used in industry and enables mass production of consistent products from continuously operated processes such as oil refining, paper manufacturing, chemicals, power plants and many others. Process control enables automation, by which a small staff of operating personnel can operate a complex process from a central control room.
Contents
1 Background
2 Hierarchy of process control
3 Types of processes using process control
4 Examples
5 See also
6 External links
Background[edit]
Block diagram of a of closed control (Feedback) loop
Example of a continuous flow control loop. Signalling is by industry standard 4-20 mA current loops, and a "smart" valve positioner ensures the control valve operates correctly.
Process control may either use feedback or it may be open loop. Control may also be continuous (automobile cruise control) or cause a sequence of discrete events, such as a timer on a lawn sprinkler (on/off) or controls on an elevator (logical sequence).
A thermostat on a heater is an example of control that is on or off. A temperature sensor turns the heat source on if the temperature falls below the set point and turns the heat source off when the set point is reached. There is no measurement of the difference between the set point and the measured temperature (e.g. no error measurement) and no adjustment to the rate at which heat is added other than all or none.
A familiar example of feedback control is cruise control on an automobile. Here speed is the measured variable. The operator (driver) adjusts the desired speed set point (e.g. 100km/hr) and the controller monitors the speed sensor and compares the measured speed to the set point. Any deviations, such as changes in grade, drag, wind speed or even using a different grade of fuel (for example an ethanol blend) are corrected by the controller making a compensating adjustment to the fuel valve open position, which is the manipulated variable. The controller makes adjustments having information only about the error (magnitude, rate of change or cumulative error) although settings known as tuning are used to achieve stable control. The operation of such controllers is the subject of control theory.
A commonly used control device called a programmable logic controller, or a PLC, is used to read a set of digital and analog inputs, apply a set of logic statements, and generate a set of analog and digital outputs.
For example, if an adjustable valve were used to hold level in a tank the logical statements would compare the equivalent pressure at depth setpoint to the pressure reading of a sensor below the normal low liquid level and determine whether more or less valve opening was necessary to keep the level constant. A PLC output would then calculate an incremental amount of change in the valve position. Larger more complex systems can be controlled by a Distributed Control System (DCS) or SCADA system.
Hierarchy of process control[edit]
Functional levels of a manufacturing control operation.
The accompanying diagram is a general model which shows functional manufacturing levels in a large process using computerised control.
Referring to the diagram;
Level 0 contains the field devices such as flow and temperature sensors, and final control elements, such as control valves
Level 1 contains the industrialised Input/Output (I/O) modules, and their associated distributed electronic processors.
Level 2 contains the supervisory computers, which collate information from processor nodes on the system, and provide the operator control screens.
Level 3 is the production control level, which does not directly control the process, but is concerned with monitoring production and monitoring targets
Level 4 is the production scheduling level.
Types of processes using process control[edit]
Processes can be characterized as one or more of the following forms:
Discrete  Found in many manufacturing, motion and packaging applications. Robotic assembly, such as that found in automotive production, can be characterized as discrete process control. Most discrete manufacturing involves the production of discrete pieces of product, such as metal stamping.
Batch  Some applications require that specific quantities of raw materials be combined in specific ways for particular durations to produce an intermediate or end result. One example is the production of adhesives and glues, which normally require the mixing of raw materials in a heated vessel for a period of time to form a quantity of end product. Other important examples are the production of food, beverages and medicine. Batch processes are generally used to produce a relatively low to intermediate quantity of product per year (a few pounds to millions of pounds).
Continuous  Often, a physical system is represented through variables that are smooth and uninterrupted in time. The control of the water temperature in a heating jacket, for example, is an example of continuous process control. Some important continuous processes are the production of fuels, chemicals and plastics. Continuous processes in manufacturing are used to produce very large quantities of product per year (millions to billions of pounds).
Applications having elements of discrete, batch and continuous process control are often called hybrid applications.
Examples[edit]
An anti-lock braking system (ABS) is a complex example, consisting of multiple inputs, conditions and outputs.
Aircraft stability control is a highly complex example using multiple inputs and outputs.
See also[edit]
Actuator
Automation
Automatic control
Check weigher
Citect
Closed-loop controller
Control engineering
Control panel
Control system
Control theory
Controllability
Controller (control theory)
Cruise control
Current loop
Digital control
Distributed control system
Feedback
Feed-forward
Fieldbus
Flow control valve
Fuzzy control system
Gain scheduling
Intelligent control
Laplace transform
Linear parameter-varying control
Measurement instruments
Model predictive control
Negative feedback
Nonlinear control
Open-loop controller
Operational historian
PID controller
Piping and instrumentation diagram
Positive feedback
Process capability
Programmable Logic Controller
Regulator (automatic control)
SCADA
Servomechanism
Setpoint
Signal-flow graph
Simatic S5 PLC
Sliding mode control
Temperature control
Transducer
Valve
Watt governor
Process control monitoring
External links[edit]
The Michigan Chemical Engineering Process Dynamics and Controls Open Textbook
PID Control Theory and Best Practices
Process Control Equipment Video Tutorials
PID control virtual laboratory, free video tutorials, on-line simulators, advanced process control schemes
Process & Control publication
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1266
Cached time: 20161119104543
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.056 seconds
Real time usage: 0.088 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 194/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 4601/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 13/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 6/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.018/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 912 KB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
55.114
1 - -total
49.31%
27.176
1 - Template:Unreferenced
43.23%
23.824
1 - Template:Ambox
37.20%
20.505
1 - Template:See_also
7.12%
3.922
1 - Template:Main
2.03%
1.119
2 - Template:Multicol-break
1.96%
1.082
1 - Template:Multicol
1.59%
0.876
1 - Template:Multicol-end
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:658183-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119104543 and revision id 750381401
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Process_control&oldid=750381401"
Categories: Chemical process engineeringControl theoryProduction and manufacturingProcess managementStatistical process controlProcess engineeringHidden categories: Articles lacking sources from November 2010All articles lacking sources