Publicutility
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}"Utilities" redirects here. For other uses, see Utility (disambiguation).
The examples and perspective in this article deal primarily with the United States, the United Kingdom, and Ireland and do not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (April 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Public infrastructure
Grand Coulee Dam
Assets and facilities
Airports
Bridges
Broadband
Canals
Critical infrastructure
Dams
Electricity
Energy
Hazardous waste
Hospitals
Irrigation schemes
Levees
Lighthouses
Parks
Ports
Mass transit
Public housing
State schools
Public spaces
Rail
Roads
Sewage
Solid waste
Telecommunication
Utilities
Water supply
Wastewater
Concepts
Asset management
Appropriation
Lindahl tax
Build-Operate-Transfer
Design-Build
Earmark
Fixed cost
Engineering contracts
Externality
Government debt
Life cycle assessment
Maintenance
Monopoly
Property tax
Public-private partnership
Public capital
Public finance
Public good
Public sector
Renovation
Replacement (upgrade)
Spillover effect
Supply chain
Taxation
Issues and ideas
Air traffic control
Brownfield
Carbon footprint
Containerization
Congestion pricing
Ecotax
Ethanol fuel
Fuel tax
Groundwater
High-speed rail
Hybrid vehicles
Land-use planning
Mobile data terminal
Pork barrel
Rapid bus transit
Recycling
Renewables
Reverse osmosis
Smart grid
Smart growth
Stormwater
Urban sprawl
Traffic congestion
Transit-oriented development
Vehicle efficiency
Waste-to-energy
Weatherization
Wireless technology
Fields of study
Architecture
Civil
Electrical
Mechanical engineering
Public economics
Public policy
Urban planning
Examples
Akashi Kaiky Bridge
Trans-Alaska pipeline
Autobahn
Brazilian energy independence
Brooklyn Bridge
Channel Tunnel
Chicago wastewater
China's high-speed rail
Curtiba rapid bus transit
Danish wind-power
British offshore wind-power
Nuclear power in France
Solar power in Germany
Hoover Dam
Hong Kong Int'l Airport
Intercity-Express
Interstate highways
Jamnagar Refinery
Kansai Int'l Airport
Panama Canal
Port of Shanghai
San Francisco Bay Bridge
Three Gorges Dam
Shinkansen
Spanish high-speed rail
French TGV rail
Spanish autovias and autopistas
Transcontinental Railroad
Power transmission in the USA
Infrastructure portal
v
t
e
A public utility (usually just utility) is an organization that maintains the infrastructure for a public service (often also providing a service using that infrastructure). Public utilities are subject to forms of public control and regulation ranging from local community-based groups to statewide government monopolies.
The term utilities can also refer to the set of services provided by these organizations consumed by the public: electricity, natural gas, water, and sewage. Broadband internet services (both fixed-line and mobile) are increasingly being included within the definition.[1][2][3][4][5]
Contents
1 United States
1.1 The California Public Utilities Commission
2 United Kingdom and Ireland
3 References
4 External links
United States[edit]
In the United States, public utilities are often natural monopolies because the infrastructure required to produce and deliver a product such as electricity or water is very expensive to build and maintain.[6] As a result, they are often government monopolies, or if privately owned, the sectors are specially regulated by a public utilities commission.[1][2][3] The first public utility in the United States was a grist mill on Mother Brook in Dedham, Massachusetts.[7]
Developments in technology have eroded some of the natural monopoly aspects of traditional public utilities. For instance, electricity generation, electricity retailing, telecommunication, some types of public transit and postal services have become competitive in some countries and the trend towards liberalization, deregulation and privatization of public utilities is growing, but the network infrastructure used to distribute most utility products and services has remained largely monopolistic.
Public utilities can be privately owned or publicly owned. Publicly owned utilities include cooperative and municipal utilities. Municipal utilities may actually include territories outside of city limits or may not even serve the entire city. Cooperative utilities are owned by the customers they serve. They are usually found in rural areas. Publicly owned utilities are non-profit. Private utilities, also called investor-owned utilities, are owned by investors,[8][9][10] and operate for profit, often referred to as a rate of return.
Public utilities provide services at the consumer level, be it residential, commercial, or industrial consumer. In turn, utilities and very large consumers buy and sell electricity at the wholesale level through a network of RTOs and ISOs within one of three grids, the eastern grid, Texas, which is a single ISO, and the western grid.
The California Public Utilities Commission[edit]
The California Public Utilities Commission (or CPUC) is a public utilities commission that officially regulates the privately owned electric, natural gas, telecommunications, water, railroad, rail transit, and passenger transportation companies that operate in the state of California.[4]
United Kingdom and Ireland[edit]
In the United Kingdom and Ireland, the state, private firms, and charities ran the traditional public utilities. For instance, the Sanitary Districts were established in England and Wales in 1875 and in Ireland in 1878.
The term can refer to the set of services provided by various organizations that are used in everyday life by the public, such as: electricity generation, electricity retailing, electricity supplies, natural gas supplies, water supplies, Sewage works, sewage systems and broadband internet services.[11] They are regulated by Ofgem, Ofwat and Ofcom. Disabled community transport services may occasionally be included within the definition. They were mostly privatised in the UK during the 1980s.
References[edit]
^ a b "Public utility - Definition". Merriam-Webster Dictionary. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
^ a b "public utility definition". Investorwords.com. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
^ a b "Public Utilities: West's Encyclopedia of American Law". Answers.com. 2009-06-28. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
^ a b "California Public Utilities Commission". Cpuc.ca.gov. 2007-03-23. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
^ http://www.nytimes.com/2015/02/27/technology/net-neutrality-fcc-vote-internet-utility.html
^ "West's Encyclopedia of American Law". Answers.com. 2009-06-28. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
^ "Where Growth Centers". The Salina Evening Journal. Salina, Kansas. November 6, 1922. p.13. Retrieved March 17, 2015  via Newspapers.com.
^ Energy Dictionary
^ Investor Owned Electric Utilities
^ Investor-Owned Utilities: Asleep at the Switch or Above the Law?
^ "Utilities Websites". Uk250.co.uk. Retrieved 2011-10-11.
External links[edit]
World Bank report on Water, Electricity and Utility subsidies
Look up utility in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Latest News in Utilities and Information Technology
Latest in UK business utility news
v
t
e
Public services
Municipalization
Nationalization
Progressive tax
Concepts
Public administration
Public domain
Public health
Public interest
Public land
Public ownership
Public policy
Public procurement
Public value
Basic services
Civil service
Fire department
Law enforcement
Postal service
Savings system
Public broadcasting
Public transport
Public utility
Electric utility
Oil & gas
Telecommunication
Municipal broadband
Public water system
Waste management
Public works
Infrastructure
Public bank
Public hospital
Public library
Public school
Public space
Public university
Social services
Single-payer health care
National health insurance
Public housing
Social insurance
Social pension
Social security
Category
Commons
Authority control
NDL: 00566127
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:171136-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161101121146 and revision id 743578524
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Public_utility&oldid=743578524"
Categories: Public utilitiesMonopoly (economics)Flow metersEconomics of transport and utility industriesHidden categories: Articles with limited geographic scope from April 2016Pages in non-existent country centric categoriesIreland-centric