Reciprocatingengine
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Internal combustion piston engine
Components of a typical, four stroke cycle, internal combustion piston engine.
E - Exhaust camshaft
I - Intake camshaft
S - Spark plug
V - Valves
P - Piston
R - Connecting rod
C - Crankshaft
W - Water jacket for coolant flow
A reciprocating engine, also often known as a piston engine, is a heat engine (usually, although there are also pneumatic and hydraulic reciprocating engines) that uses one or more reciprocating pistons to convert pressure into a rotating motion. This article describes the common features of all types. The main types are: the internal combustion engine, used extensively in motor vehicles; the steam engine, the mainstay of the Industrial Revolution; and the niche application Stirling engine. Internal Combustion engines are further classified in two ways: either a spark-ignition (SI) engine, where the spark plug initiates the combustion; or a compression-ignition (CI) engine, where the air within the cylinder is compressed, thus heating it, so that the heated air ignites fuel that is injected then or earlier.[1]
Contents
1 Common features in all types
2 History
3 Engine capacity
4 Other modern non-internal combustion types
5 Reciprocating quantum heat engine
6 Miscellaneous engines
7 See also
8 Notes
9 External links
Common features in all types[edit]
There may be one or more pistons. Each piston is inside a cylinder, into which a gas is introduced, either already under pressure (e.g. steam engine), or heated inside the cylinder either by ignition of a fuel air mixture (internal combustion engine) or by contact with a hot heat exchanger in the cylinder (Stirling engine). The hot gases expand, pushing the piston to the bottom of the cylinder. This position is also known as the Bottom Dead Center (BDC), or where the piston forms the largest volume in the cylinder. The piston is returned to the cylinder top (Top Dead Centre) (TDC) by a flywheel, the power from other pistons connected to the same shaft or (in a double acting cylinder) by the same process acting on the other side of the piston. This is where the piston forms the smallest volume in the cylinder. In most types the expanded or "exhausted" gases are removed from the cylinder by this stroke. The exception is the Stirling engine, which repeatedly heats and cools the same sealed quantity of gas. The stroke is simply the distance between the TDC and the BDC, or the greatest distance that the piston can travel in one direction.
In some designs the piston may be powered in both directions in the cylinder, in which case it is said to be double-acting.
Steam piston engine
A labeled schematic diagram of a typical single-cylinder, simple expansion, double-acting high pressure steam engine. Power takeoff from the engine is by way of a belt.
1  Piston
2  Piston rod
3  Crosshead bearing
4  Connecting rod
5  Crank
6  Eccentric valve motion
7  Flywheel
8  Sliding valve
9  Centrifugal governor.
In most types, the linear movement of the piston is converted to a rotating movement via a connecting rod and a crankshaft or by a swashplate or other suitable mechanism. A flywheel is often used to ensure smooth rotation or to store energy to carry the engine through an un-powered part of the cycle. The more cylinders a reciprocating engine has, generally, the more vibration-free (smoothly) it can operate. The power of a reciprocating engine is proportional to the volume of the combined pistons' displacement.
A seal must be made between the sliding piston and the walls of the cylinder so that the high pressure gas above the piston does not leak past it and reduce the efficiency of the engine. This seal is usually provided by one or more piston rings. These are rings made of a hard metal, and are sprung into a circular groove in the piston head. The rings fit tightly in the groove and press against the cylinder wall to form a seal.
It is common to classify such engines by the number and alignment of cylinders and total volume of displacement of gas by the pistons moving in the cylinders usually measured in cubic centimetres (cm or cc) or litres (l) or (L) (US: liter). For example, for internal combustion engines, single and two-cylinder designs are common in smaller vehicles such as motorcycles, while automobiles typically have between four and eight, and locomotives, and ships may have a dozen cylinders or more. Cylinder capacities may range from 10cm or less in model engines up to several thousand cubic centimetres in ships' engines.
The compression ratio affects the performance in most types of reciprocating engine. It is the ratio between the volume of the cylinder, when the piston is at the bottom of its stroke, and the volume when the piston is at the top of its stroke.
The bore/stroke ratio is the ratio of the diameter of the piston, or "bore", to the length of travel within the cylinder, or "stroke". If this is around 1 the engine is said to be "square", if it is greater than 1, i.e. the bore is larger than the stroke, it is "oversquare". If it is less than 1, i.e. the stroke is larger than the bore, it is "undersquare".
Cylinders may be aligned in line, in a V configuration, horizontally opposite each other, or radially around the crankshaft. Opposed-piston engines put two pistons working at opposite ends of the same cylinder and this has been extended into triangular arrangements such as the Napier Deltic. Some designs have set the cylinders in motion around the shaft, such as the Rotary engine.
Stirling piston engine
Rhombic Drive  Beta Stirling Engine Design, showing the second displacer piston (green) within the cylinder, which shunts the working gas between the hot and cold ends, but produces no power itself.
Pink  Hot cylinder wall
Dark grey  Cold cylinder wall
Green  Displacer piston
Dark blue  Power piston
Light blue  Flywheels
In steam engines and internal combustion engines, valves are required to allow the entry and exit of gasses at the correct times in the piston's cycle. These are worked by cams, eccentrics or cranks driven by the shaft of the engine. Early designs used the D slide valve but this has been largely superseded by Piston valve or Poppet valve designs. In steam engines the point in the piston cycle at which the steam inlet valve closes is called the cutoff and this can often be controlled to adjust the torque supplied by the engine and improve efficiency. In some steam engines, the action of the valves can be replaced by an oscillating cylinder.
Internal combustion engines operate through a sequence of strokes that admit and remove gases to and from the cylinder. These operations are repeated cyclically and an engine is said to be 2-stroke, 4-stroke or 6-stroke depending on the number of strokes it takes to complete a cycle.
In some steam engines, the cylinders may be of varying size with the smallest bore cylinder working the highest pressure steam. This is then fed through one or more, increasingly larger bore cylinders successively, to extract power from the steam at increasingly lower pressures. These engines are called Compound engines.
Aside from looking at the power that the engine can produce, the Mean Effective Pressure (MEP), can also be used in comparing the power output and performance of reciprocating engines of the same size. The mean effective pressure is the fictitious pressure which would produce the same amount of net work that was produced during the power stroke cycle. This is shown by:
Wnet = MEP x Piston Area x Stroke = MEP x Displacement Volume and therefore: MEP = Wnet/Displacement Volume
Whichever engine with the larger value of MEP produces more net work per cycle and performs more efficiently.[1]
History[edit]
Further information: History of the steam engine
Further information: History of the internal combustion engine
An early known example of rotary to reciprocating motion can be found in a number of Roman saw mills (dating to the 3rd to 6th century AD) in which a crank and connecting rod mechanism converted the rotary motion of the waterwheel into the linear movement of the saw blades.[2]
The reciprocating engine developed in Europe during the 18th century, first as the atmospheric engine then later as the steam engine. These were followed by the Stirling engine and internal combustion engine in the 19th century. Today the most common form of reciprocating engine is the internal combustion engine running on the combustion of petrol, diesel, Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) or compressed natural gas (CNG) and used to power motor vehicles and engine power plants.
One notable reciprocating engine from the World War II Era was the 28-cylinder, 3,500hp (2,600kW) Pratt & Whitney R-4360 "Wasp Major" radial engine. It powered the last generation of large piston-engined planes before jet engines and turboprops took over from 1944 onward. It had a total engine capacity of 71.5L (4,360cuin), and a high power-to-weight ratio.
The largest reciprocating engine in production at present, but not the largest ever built, is the Wrtsil-Sulzer RTA96-C turbocharged two-stroke diesel engine of 2006 built by Wrtsil. It is used to power the largest modern container ships such as the Emma Mrsk. It is five stories high (13.5m or 44ft), 27m (89ft) long, and weighs over 2,300 metric tons (2,500 short tons) in its largest 14 cylinders version producing more than 84.42MW (114,800bhp). Each cylinder has a capacity of 1,820L (64cuft), making a total capacity of 25,480L (900cuft) for the largest versions.
Engine capacity[edit]
For piston engines, an engine's capacity is the engine displacement, in other words the volume swept by all the pistons of an engine in a single movement. It is generally measured in litres (l) or cubic inches (c.i.d. or cuin or in) for larger engines, and cubic centimetres (abbreviated cc) for smaller engines. All else being equal, engines with greater capacities are more powerful and consumption of fuel increases accordingly, although power and fuel consumption are affected by many factors outside of engine displacement.
Other modern non-internal combustion types[edit]
Reciprocating engines that are powered by compressed air, steam or other hot gases are still used in some applications such as to drive many modern torpedoes or as pollution-free motive power. Most steam-driven applications use steam turbines, which are more efficient than piston engines.
The French-designed FlowAIR vehicles use compressed air stored in a cylinder to drive a reciprocating engine in a pollution-free urban vehicle.[3]
Torpedoes may use a working gas produced by high test peroxide or Otto fuel II, which pressurise without combustion. The 230kg (510lb) Mark 46 torpedo, for example, can travel 11km (6.8mi) underwater at 74km/h (46mph) fuelled by Otto fuel without oxidant.
Reciprocating quantum heat engine[edit]
Quantum heat engines are devices that generate power from heat that flows from a hot to a cold reservoir. The mechanism of operation of the engine can be described by the laws of quantum mechanics. Quantum refrigerators are devices that consume power with the purpose to pump heat from a cold to a hot reservoir.
In a reciprocating quantum heat engine the working medium is a quantum system such as spin systems or an harmonic oscillator. The Carnot cycle and Otto cycle are the ones most studied.[4] The quantum versions obey the laws of thermodynamics. In addition these models can justify the assumptions of endoreversible thermodynamics. A theoretical study has shown that it is possible and practical to build a reciprocating engine that is composed of a single oscillating atom. This is an area for future research and could have applications in nanotechnology.[5]
Miscellaneous engines[edit]
There are a large number of unusual varieties of piston engines that have various claimed advantages, many of which see little if any current use:
Free-piston engine
Swing-piston engine
IRIS engine
Bourke engine
See also[edit]
Heat engine for a view of the thermodynamics involved in these engines.
For a contrasting approach using no pistons, see the pistonless rotary engine.
For an historical perspective see Timeline of heat engine technology.
Steam engine
Steam locomotive
Stirling engine
Internal combustion engine
Otto cycle
Diesel cycle
Engine configuration for a discussion of the layout of the major components of a reciprocating piston internal combustion engine.
Diesel engine
Gasoline engine
Notes[edit]
^ a b Thermodynamics: An Engineering Approach by Yunus A. Cengal and Michael A. Boles
^ Ritti, Tullia; Grewe, Klaus; Kessener, Paul (2007), "A Relief of a Water-powered Stone Saw Mill on a Sarcophagus at Hierapolis and its Implications", Journal of Roman Archaeology, 20: 138163
^ AIRPod manufactured by MDI SA. Accessed February 19, 2015
^ [1] Irreversible performance of a quantum harmonic heat engine, Rezek and Kosloff, New J. Phys. 8 (2006) 83
^ Can a car engine be built out of a single particle? Physorg, November 30, 2012 by Lisa Zyga. Accessed 01-12-12
External links[edit]
Combustion video - in-cylinder combustion in an optically accessible, 2-stroke engine
HowStuffWorks: How Car Engines Work
Reciprocating Engines at Infoplease.
Piston Engines at the US Centennial of Flight Commission.
v
t
e
Reciprocating engines and configurations
Type
Bourke
Orbital
Piston
Pistonless (Wankel)
Radial
Rotary
Split cycle
Stelzer
Tschudi
Stroke cycles
Two-stroke
Four-stroke
Six-stroke
Two-and four-stroke
Configurations
& number of cylinders
Single cylinder
Single
Two cylinders
Split-single
I2
V2
F2
Inline / straight
I2
I3
I4
I5
I6
I7
I8
I9
I10
I12
I14
Flat
F2
F4
F6
F8
F10
F12
F16
V / Vee
V2
V3
V4
V5
V6
V8
V10
V12
V14
V16
V18
V20
V24
W
W8
W12
W16
W18
Other inline
H
U
Square four
VR
Opposed
X
Junkers Jumo 222
Components
Valves
Cylinder head porting
Corliss
Intake
Exhaust
Multi
Overhead
Piston
Poppet
Side
Sleeve
Slide
Rotary valve
Variable valve timing
Camless
Desmodromic
Fuel supplies
Carburetor
Gasoline direct injection
Common rail
Mechanisms
Cam
Camshaft
Overhead camshaft
Connecting rod
Crank
Crankshaft
Scotch yoke
Swashplate
Rhombic drive
Linkages
PeaucellierLipkin
Watt's (parallel)
Other
Hemi
Recuperator
Turbo-compounding
v
t
e
Car design
Car classification
Antique
City car
Classic
Compact
Compact executive
Compact MPV
Compact SUV
Crossover SUV
Custom
Hot rod
Lead sled
Lowrider
Street rod
T-bucket
Economy
Executive
Family car (large)
Full-size
Grand tourer
Hot hatch
Kei
Leisure activity vehicle
Luxury
Microcar
Mid-size
Mini MPV
Mini SUV
Minivan / Multi-purpose vehicle (MPV)
Muscle
luxury
Pony
Sport compact
Sport utility vehicle (SUV)
Sports car
Subcompact
Supercar
Supermini
Truck
Ute
Van
Voiturette
Body styles
2+2
Baquet
Barchetta
Berlinetta
Brougham
Cabrio coach
Cabriolet / Convertible
Coup
Coup de Ville
Coup utility
Drophead coupe (Convertible)
Fastback
Hardtop
Hatchback
Landaulet
Liftback
Limousine
Multi-stop truck
Notchback
Panel van
Phaeton
Pickup truck
Quad coup
Retractable hardtop
Roadster
Runabout
Saloon / Sedan
Sedan delivery
Sedanca de Ville (Coup de Ville)
Shooting-brake
Spider / Spyder (Roadster)
Station wagon
Targa top
Torpedo
Touring car
Town car (Coup de Ville)
T-top
Vis--vis
Specialized vehicles
Amphibious
Driverless (autonomous)
Hearse
Gyrocar
Roadable aircraft
Taxicab
Tow truck
Propulsion
Alternative fuel
Autogas
Biodiesel
Diesel
Electric(battery
NEV)
Ethanol(E85)
Fuel cell
Gasoline/ petrol(direct injection)
Homogeneous charge compression ignition
Hybrid(plug-in)
Hydrogen
Internal combustion
Liquid nitrogen
Steam
Drive wheels
Front-wheel
Rear-wheel
Two-wheel
Four-wheel
Six-wheel
Eight-wheel
Twelve-wheel
Engine position
Front
Mid
Rear
Layout (engine/ drive)
Front/ front
Front mid/ front
Rear/ front
Front/ rear
Rear mid/ rear
Rear/ rear
Front/ four-wheel
Mid/ four-wheel
Rear/ four-wheel
Engine configuration
(internal combustion)
Boxer
Flat
Four-stroke
H-block
Inline
Reciprocating
Single-cylinder
Straight
Two-stroke
V (Vee)
W engine
Wankel
Portal
Category
v
t
e
Heat engines
Carnot engine
Fluidyne
Gas turbine
Hot air
Jet
Minto wheel
Photo-Carnot engine
Piston
Pistonless (Rotary)
Rijke tube
Rocket
Split-single
Steam (reciprocating)
Steam turbine
Stirling
Thermoacoustic
Beale number
West number
Timeline of heat engine technology
Thermodynamic cycle
v
t
e
Steam engines
Operating cycle
Atmospheric
Watt
Cornish
Compound
Uniflow
Valves
Valves
Slide
D slide
Piston
Drop
Corliss
Poppet
Sleeve
Bash
Valve gear
Gab
Stephenson link
Joy
Walschaerts
Allan
Baker
Corliss
Lentz
Caprotti
Gresley conjugated
Southern
Mechanisms
Beam
Cataract
Centrifugal governor
Connecting rod
Crank
Crankshaft
Hypocycloidal gear
Link chain
Parallel motion
Plate chain
Rotative beam
Sun and planet gear
Watt's linkage
Boilers
Simple boilers
Haystack
Wagon
Egg-ended
Box
Flued
Cornish
Lancashire
Fire-tube boilers
Locomotive
Scotch
Launch
Water-tube boilers
Babcock & Wilcox
Field-tube
Sentinel
Stirling
Thimble tube
Three-drum
Yarrow
Boiler feed
Feedwater heater
Feedwater pump
Injector
Cylinder
Locomotive
Oscillating
Single- and double-acting
Condenser
Condensing steam locomotive
Jet
Kirchweger
Watt's separate
"Pickle-pot"
Surface
Other
Crosshead
Cutoff
Expansion valve
Hydrolock
Piston
Reciprocating engine
Return connecting rod engine
Six-column beam engine
Steeple engine
Safety valve
Steeple compound engine
Stroke
Working fluid
History
Precursors
Savery Engine (1698)
Newcomen engine
Newcomen Memorial Engine (1725)
Fairbottom Bobs (1760)
Elsecar Engine (1795)
Watt engine
Beam
Kinneil Engine (1768)
Old Bess (1777)
Chacewater Mine engine (1778)
Smethwick Engine (1779)
Resolution (1781)
Rotative beam
Soho Manufactory engine (1782)
Bradley Works engine (1783)
Whitbread Engine (1785)
National Museum of Scotland engine (1786)
Lap Engine (1788)
High-pressure
Richard Trevithick
Puffing Devil (1801)
London Steam Carriage (1803)
"Coalbrookdale Locomotive" (1803)
"Pen-y-Darren" locomotive (1804)
Compound
Woolf's compound engine (1803)
Murray
Murray's Hypocycloidal Engine (1805)
Salamanca (1812)
High-speed
Porter-Allen (1862)
See also
Glossary of steam locomotive components
History of steam road vehicles
Cugnot's fardier  vapeur (1769)
Murdoch's model steam carriage (1784)
Lean's Engine Reporter
List of steam technology patents
Modern steam
Stationary steam engine
Timeline of steam power
Water-returning engine
Authority control
GND: 4133462-0
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1227
Cached time: 20161120063726
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.264 seconds
Real time usage: 0.314 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2626/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 146206/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 5227/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.082/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.19 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
186.425
1 - -total
44.27%
82.523
10 - Template:Navbox
22.03%
41.074
1 - Template:Reflist
18.68%
34.829
10 - Template:Convert
18.07%
33.678
1 - Template:Citation
17.26%
32.175
1 - Template:Steam_engine_configurations
15.83%
29.520
4 - Template:Navbox_subgroup
10.80%
20.139
2 - Template:Further_information
10.43%
19.443
1 - Template:Authority_control
7.54%
14.052
1 - Template:Piston_engine_configurations
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:25995-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120063726 and revision id 750517301
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Reciprocating_engine&oldid=750517301"
Categories: Engine technologyPiston enginesHidden categories: Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers