RenewableenergyinPakistan
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Renewable energy in Pakistan is a relatively underdeveloped sector; however, in recent years, there has been some interest by environmentalist groups and from the authorities to explore renewable energy resources for energy production, in light of the energy crises and power shortages affecting the country. Most of the renewable energy in Pakistan comes from hydroelectricity.
Contents
1 Solar power
2 Wind power
3 Tidal power
4 References
5 External links
Solar power[edit]
Main article: Solar power in Pakistan
There have been some efforts to install and expand the use of solar energy in Pakistan. The average amount of daily sunlight in Pakistan is nine and a half hours[citation needed]; there are a few cloudy days even in the wettest regions. Eight power generation plants have been installed and eleven are in various stages of completion.[when?] Further feasibility studies are undergoing. In December 1981, the first solar photovoltaic system was commissioned, located in Mumniala (a village 60km from Islamabad). Four solar systems has been commissioned in Khukhera (Lasbela district), Ghakar (Attock district), Malmari (Thatta district) (now that system is unserviceable) and Dittal Khan Leghari, Digri (Mirpurkhas district).The Punjab government announced the establishment of Quaid-e-Azam Solar Park over an area of 5,000 acres in the Cholistan Development Authority in Bahawalpur.[1]
A practical example of the use of solar energy can be seen in some rural villages of Pakistan where houses have been provided with solar panels that run electric fans and energy-saving bulbs. One notable and successfully implemented case was the village of Narian Khorian (about 50 kilometers from Islamabad), which employs the use of 100 solar panels installed by a local firm, free of cost; these panels have provide energy through lights and fan facilities to some 100 households.[2] The alternative energy development board installed 200 solar home systems at District Khuzdar Balochistan in a remote off-grid village Karak. Government of Balochistan launched a programme to electrify off-grid villages of various districts through solar technology.
Wind power[edit]
Main article: Wind power in Pakistan
Pakistan is developing wind power plants in Jhimpir, Gharo, Keti Bandar and Bin Qasim in Sindh. The government of Pakistan decided to develop wind power energy sources due to problems supplying energy to the southern coastal regions of Sindh and Balochistan, the project was undertaken with assistance from the government of China. Another area with potential is Swat which shows good wind conditions in windpower investment. The Chagai District in Balochistan has good potential for wind power in the Nukundi area near the Afghan/Iran Border, with wind speeds often 12.5% higher than average required for energy generation.[3]
Some examples are:
Jhimpir Wind Power Plant (operational)
Gharo Wind Power Plant (operational)
Bin Qasim Wind Power Project (under construction)
Tidal power[edit]
Tidal power has not yet been operational in Pakistan compared to other renewable energy technologies, but in near future it may play a key role. Some think that tidal power plants in coastal creeks of Pakistan can serve the energy crisis conundrum up to some level.
The coastline of Pakistan, which is about 1,045km-long with dominant features, is the best resource for harnessing tidal energy. In Sindh, two sites, creek system of Indus delta of 170km and two to five metres tidal heights at the Korangi Creek, are available to exploit the tidal energy. Sonmiani Beach and Kalamat are also good prospects of tidal energy in Balochistan. Government has issued licence to private companies to take measures to build tidal power stations in February 2013. Since then, the engineering work is under process, and initially a 10 MW plant is proposed at Sonmiani Bay. Construction was expected to start by the end of 2013.
References[edit]
^ Daily Tribune,March 27, 2015
^ Utilizing Solar Energy in Pakistan, Pakistaniat
^ "Wind power and solar energy in Pakistan". PPI News Agency. Retrieved 2015-04-22.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Renewable energy in Pakistan.
Wind power in Pakistan
Solar power in Pakistan
v
t
e
Renewable energy by country
Africa
Ethiopia
Kenya
Morocco
Seychelles
Asia
Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
China
India
Kazakhstan
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Taiwan
Thailand
Europe
European Union (Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom)
Albania
Iceland
Norway
Russia
North America
Canada
Costa Rica
Honduras
Mexico
United States
Oceania
Australia
New Zealand
Tuvalu
South America
Argentina
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Category
Portals:
Energy
Renewable energy
Sustainable development
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:32271082-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161108063327 and revision id 733264518
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Renewable_energy_in_Pakistan&oldid=733264518"
Categories: Renewable energy in PakistanHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from August 2013All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2007Vague or ambiguous time from April 2014Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata