Resourcedepletion
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For other uses, see Depletion.
Look up Depletion in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Resource depletion is the consumption of a resource faster than it can be replenished. Natural resources are commonly divided between renewable resources and non-renewable resources (see also mineral resource classification). Use of either of these forms of resources beyond their rate of replacement is considered to be resource depletion.
Resource depletion is most commonly used in reference to farming, fishing, mining, water usage, and consumption of fossil fuels.[1]
Contents
1 Causes
2 Minerals
3 Oil
4 Deforestation
4.1 Causes
4.2 Environmental impact
4.3 Controlling deforestation
5 Wetlands
6 See also
7 References
Causes[edit]
Aquifer depletion
Habitat degradation leads to the loss of biodiversity (i.e. species and ecosystems with its ecosystem services)
Irrigation
Mining for fossil fuels and minerals
Overconsumption, excessive or unnecessary use of resources
Overpopulation
Pollution or contamination of resources
Slash-and-burn agricultural practices, currently occurring in many developing countries
Soil erosion
Technological and industrial development
Deforestation
Minerals[edit]
Main article: Peak minerals
Minerals are needed to provide food, clothing, and housing. A United States Geological Survey (USGS) study found a significant long-term trend over the 20th century for non-renewable resources such as minerals to supply a greater proportion of the raw material inputs to the non-fuel, non-food sector of the economy; an example is the greater consumption of crushed stone, sand, and gravel used in construction.[2]
Large-scale exploitation of minerals began in the Industrial Revolution around 1760 in England and has grown rapidly ever since. Technological improvements have allowed humans to dig deeper and access lower grades and different types of ore over that time.[3][4][5] Virtually all basic industrial metals (copper, iron, bauxite, etc.), as well as rare earth minerals, face production output limitations from time to time,[6] because supply involves large up-front investments and is therefore slow to respond to rapid increases in demand.[4]
Minerals projected by some to enter production decline during the next 20 years:
Gas (2023)[7]
Copper (2024).[8] Data from the United States Geological Survey (USGS) suggest that it is very unlikely that copper production will peak before 2040.[5]
Zinc.[9] New developments in hydrometallurgy have transformed non-sulphide zinc deposits (largely ignored until now) into large low cost reserves.[10][11]
Minerals projected by some to enter production decline during the present century:
Aluminium (2057)[8]
Coal (2060)[8]
Iron (2068).[8]
Such projections may change, as new discoveries are made[8] and typically misinterpret available data on Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves.[4][5]
Oil[edit]
Main articles: Oil depletion and Peak oil
Peak oil is the period when the maximum rate of global petroleum extraction is reached, after which the rate of production enters terminal decline. It relates to a long-term decline in the available supply of petroleum. This, combined with increasing demand, will significantly increase the worldwide prices of petroleum derived products. Most significant will be the availability and price of liquid fuel for transportation.
The United States Department of Energy in the Hirsch report indicates that The peaking of world oil production presents the U. S. and the world with an unprecedented risk management problem. As peaking is approached, liquid fuel prices and price volatility will increase dramatically, and, without timely mitigation, the economic, social, and political costs will be unprecedented. Viable mitigation options exist on both the supply and demand sides, but to have substantial impact, they must be initiated more than a decade in advance of peaking.[12]
Deforestation[edit]
Main article: Deforestation
Deforestation is the clearing of forests by logging or burning of trees and plants in a forested area. As a result of deforestation, presently about one half of the forests that once covered Earth have been destroyed.[13] It occurs for many different reasons, and it has several negative implications on the atmosphere and the quality of the land in and surrounding the forest.
Causes[edit]
One of the main causes of deforestation is clearing forests for agricultural reasons. As the population of developing areas, especially near rainforests, increases, the need for land for farming becomes more and more important.[14] For most people, a forest has no value when its resources arent being used, so the incentives to deforest these areas outweigh the incentives to preserve the forests. For this reason, the economic value of the forests is very important for the developing countries.[15]
Environmental impact[edit]
Because deforestation is so extensive, it has made several significant impacts on the environment, including carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, changing the water cycle, an increase in soil erosion, and a decrease in biodiversity. Deforestation is often cited as a cause of global warming. Because trees and plants remove carbon dioxide and emit oxygen into the atmosphere, the reduction of forests contribute to about 12% of anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions.[16] One of the most pressing issues that deforestation creates is soil erosion. The removal of trees causes higher rates of erosion, increasing risks of landslides, which is a direct threat to many people living close to deforested areas. As forests get destroyed, so does the habitat for millions of animals. It is estimated that 80% of the worlds known biodiversity lives in the rainforests, and the destruction of these rainforests is accelerating extinction at an alarming rate.[17]
Controlling deforestation[edit]
The United Nations and the World Bank created programs such as Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD), which works especially with developing countries to use subsidies or other incentives to encourage citizens to use the forest in a more sustainable way.[18] In addition to making sure that emissions from deforestation are kept to a minimum, an effort to educate people on sustainability and helping them to focus on the long-term risks is key to the success of these programs.[19] The New York Declaration on Forests and its associated actions promotes reforestation, which is being encouraged in many countries in an attempt to repair the damage that deforestation has done.[20]
Wetlands[edit]
Main article: Wetland
This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2011) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Wetlands are areas that are often saturated by enough surface or groundwater to sustain vegetation that is usually adapted to saturated soil conditions, such as cattails, bulrushes, red maples, wild rice, blackberries, cranberries, and peat moss. Because some varieties of wetlands are rich in minerals and nutrients and provide many of the advantages of both land and water environments they contain diverse species and possibly even form a food chain. When human activities take away resources many species are affected. An ecosystem contains many species.
Years ago people assumed wetlands were useless so it was not a large concern when they were being dug up. Many people want to use them for developing homes etc. On the other side of the argument, people believe that the wetlands are a vital source for other life forms and a part of the life cycle.
Wetlands provide services for:
Food and habitat
Improving water quality
Commercial fishing
Floodwater reduction
Shoreline stabilization
Recreation
Some loss of wetlands resulted from natural causes such as erosion, sedimentation (the buildup of soil by the settling of fine particles over a long period of time), subsidence (the sinking of land because of diminishing underground water supplies), and a rise in the sea level.[citation needed]
See also[edit]
Holocene extinction
Overexploitation
Overfishing
Peak coal
Peak copper
Peak gas
Peak gold
Peak minerals
Peak phosphorus
Peak uranium
Peak water
Peak wheat
Planetary boundaries
References[edit]
^ Depletion and Conservation of Natural Resources: The Economic Value of the World's Ecosystems  How Much is Nature Worth? The Role of Forests and Habitat
^ Materials Flow and Sustainability, US Geological Survey, Fact Sheet FS-068-98, June 1998.
^ West, J (2011). "Decreasing metal ore grades: are they really being driven by the depletion of high-grade deposits?". J Ind Ecol. 15 (2): 165168. doi:10.1111/j.1530-9290.2011.00334.x.
^ a b c Drielsma, Johannes A; Russell-Vaccari, Andrea J; Drnek, Thomas; Brady, Tom; Weihed, Pr; Mistry, Mark; Perez Simbor, Laia (2016). "Mineral resources in life cycle impact assessmentdefining the path forward". Int J Life Cycle Assess. 21 (1): 85105. doi:10.1007/s11367-015-0991-7.
^ a b c Meinert, Lawrence D; Robinson, Gilpin R Jr; Nassar, Nedal T (2016). "Mineral Resources: Reserves, Peak Production and the Future". resources. 5 (14). doi:10.3390/resources5010014.
^ Klare, M. T. (2012). The Race for Whats Left. Metropolitan Books. ISBN9781250023971.
^ Valero & Valero(2010)Physical geonomics: Combining the exergy and Hubbert peak analysis for predicting mineral resources depletion
^ a b c d e Physical geonomics: Combining the exergy and Hubbert peak analysis for predicting mineral resources depletion
^ Zinc Depletion
^ Jenkin, G. R. T.; Lusty, P. A. J.; McDonald, I; Smith, M. P.; Boyce, A. J.; Wilkinson, J. J. (2014). Ore Deposits in an Evolving Earth. London: Geological Society, London, Special Publications.
^ Hitzman, M. W.; Reynolds, N. A.; Sangster, D. F.; Allen, C. R.; Carman, C. F. (2003). "Classification, genesis, and exploration guides for Nonsulfide Zinc deposits". Economic Geology (98): 685714.
^ DOE Hirsch Report
^ "Global Deforestation". Global Change Curriculum. University of Michigan Global Change Program. January 4, 2006
^ Butler, Rhett A. "Impact of Population and Poverty on Rainforests". Mongabay.com / A Place Out of Time: Tropical Rainforests and the Perils They Face. Retrieved May 13, 2009.
^ Pearce, David W (2001). "The Economic Value of Forest Ecosystems". Ecosystem Health. 7 (4): 284296. doi:10.1046/j.1526-0992.2001.01037.x.
^ G. R. van der Werf, D. C. Morton, R. S. DeFries, J. G. J. Olivier, P. S. Kasibhatla, R. B. Jackson, G. J. Collatz and J .T. Randerson, CO2 emissions from forest loss, Nature Geoscience, Volume 2 (November 2009) pp. 737738
^ Do We Have Enough Forests? By Sten Nilsson
^ "Copenhagen Accord of 18 December 2009". UNFCC. 2009. Retrieved 2009-12-28.
^ Diamond, Jared Collapse: How Societies Choose To Fail or Succeed; Viking Press 2004, pages 301302
^ Foley, Jonathan A; DeFries, Ruth; Asner, Gregory P; Barford, Carol; et al. (2005). "Global Consequences of Land Use". Science. 309 (5734): 570574. doi:10.1126/science.1111772. CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. (link)
v
t
e
Natural resources
Air
Pollution/ quality
Ambient standards (USA)
Index
Indoor
developing nations
Law
Clean Air Act (USA)
Ozone depletion
Emissions
Airshed
Trading
Deforestation (REDD)
Energy
Law
Resources
Fossil fuels(peak oil)
Geothermal
Nuclear
Solar
sunlight
shade
Tidal
Wave
Wind
Land
Arable
peak farmland
Degradation
Law
property
Management
habitat conservation
Minerals
mining
law
sand
peak
rights
Soil
conservation
fertility
health
resilience
Use
planning
reserve
Life
Biodiversity
Bioprospecting
Biosphere
Bushfood
Bushmeat
Fisheries
law
management
Food
Forests
genetic resources
law
management
Game
law
Gene bank
Herbalist plants
Marine conservation
Non-timber forest products
Rangeland
Seed bank
Wildlife
conservation
management
Wood
Water
Types/ location
Aquifer
storage and recovery
Drinking
Fresh
Groundwater
pollution
recharge
remediation
Hydrosphere
Ice
bergs
glacial
polar
Irrigation
Rain
harvesting
Stormwater
Surface water
Wastewater
reclaimed
Aspects
Desalination
Floods
Law
Leaching
Sanitation
Conflict
Conservation
Pollution
Privatization
Quality
Right
Resources
management
policy
Related
Common land
common-pool
enclosure
global
tragedy theory
Economics
ecological
Ecosystem services
Exploitation
overexploitation
Management
adaptive
Natural capital
accounting
Nature reserve
Systems ecology
Urban ecology
Wilderness
Resource
Conflict (perpetuation)
Curse
Depletion
Extraction
Nationalism
Renewable/ Non-renewable
Portals
Agriculture and agronomy
Energy
Environment
Fishing
Forestry
Mining
Water
Wetlands
Category
agencies
law
management
ministries
organizations
Colleges
Natural resources
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:155961-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161113212003 and revision id 749342429
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Resource_depletion&oldid=749342429"
Categories: Resource economicsEnvironmental issuesPeak resource productionHidden categories: CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al.Articles needing additional references from December 2011All articles needing additional referencesAll articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2015