Scandinavia
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}This article is about Scandinavia as a historical and cultural-linguistic region. For the peninsula, see Scandinavian Peninsula. For the broader group of northern European countries including Finland and Iceland, see Nordic countries. For other uses, see Scandinavia (disambiguation).
Scandinavia
Area
928,057 km2 (358,325 sq mi)
Population
~27 million (2016)
Pop. density
22/km2 (57/sq mi)
Demonym
Scandinavian
Countries
Denmark
Norway
Sweden
Languages
Danish
Norwegian
Swedish
Minority or regional languages:
Faroese
German
Kven
Menkieli
Yiddish
Romani
Sami
Time zones
UTC+1
UTC+2 (DST)
Internet TLD
.dk, .no, .se and .eu
.fo, .gl, .sj
This article is part of a series on
Scandinavia
Geography
Mountains
Peninsula
Viking Age
Old Norse
Vikings
Viking art
Mythology
Political entities
Denmark
Norway
Sweden
Former political entities
DenmarkNorway
SwedenFinland
Sweden-Norway
History
Denmark
Norway
Sweden
Other topics
Languages
Scandinavism
Nordic Council
Monetary Union
Defence Union
Scandinavian Airlines
v
t
e
Scandinavia[a] /skndnevi/ is a historical and cultural region in Northern Europe characterized by a common ethnocultural North Germanic heritage[dubious  discuss] and mutually intelligible North Germanic languages.[1]
The term Scandinavia always includes the mainlands of the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. Norwegian dependencies, including Svalbard and Jan Mayen, are usually not seen as a part of Scandinavia, nor is Danish Greenland. However, the Danish Faroe Islands are sometimes included, as sometimes are Iceland and Finland, because of their historical association with the Scandinavian countries and the Scandinavian peoples and languages.[2] This looser definition almost equates to that of the Nordic countries. In Nordic languages, only mainland Denmark, Norway and Sweden, are commonly included in the definition of Scandinavia.
In English usage, Scandinavia sometimes refers to the geographical area, also known as the Scandinavian Peninsula.[3][4] The name Scandinavia originally referred vaguely to the formerly Danish, now Swedish, region Scania. The terms Scandinavia and Scandinavian entered usage in the late 18th century as terms for Denmark, Norway and Sweden, their Germanic majority peoples and associated language and culture, the term being introduced by the early linguistic and cultural Scandinavist movement.
The majority of the population of Scandinavia are descended from several (North) Germanic tribes who originally inhabited the southern part of Scandinavia and spoke a Germanic language that evolved into Old Norse. Icelanders and the Faroese are to a significant extent descended from the Norse, and are therefore often seen as Scandinavian. Finland is mainly populated by Finns, with a significant minority of Swedish speakers. A small minority of Sami people live in the extreme north of Scandinavia.
The Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish languages form a dialect continuum and are known as the Scandinavian languagesall of which are considered mutually intelligible with one another. Faroese and Icelandic, sometimes referred to as insular Scandinavian languages, are intelligible in continental Scandinavian languages only to a limited extent. Finnish and Menkieli are closely related to each other and more distantly to the Sami languages, but are entirely unrelated to the Scandinavian languages. Apart from these, German, Yiddish and Romani are recognized minority languages in Scandinavia.
The southern and by far most populous regions of Scandinavia have a temperate climate. Scandinavia extends north of the Arctic Circle, but has relatively mild weather for its latitude due to the Gulf Stream. Much of the Scandinavian mountains have an alpine tundra climate. There are many lakes and moraines, legacies of the last glacial period, which ended about ten millennia ago.
Contents
1 Terminology and use
1.1 Finland
1.2 Societal and tourism promotional organizations
2 Use of Nordic countries vs. Scandinavia
3 Etymology
3.1 Pliny the Elder's descriptions
3.2 Germanic reconstruction
3.3 Sami etymology
3.4 Other etymologies
4 Geography
5 Languages in Scandinavia
5.1 North Germanic languages
5.2 Finnish
5.3 Sami languages
6 History
6.1 Scandinavian unions
7 Political Scandinavism
8 See also
9 Notes
10 References
11 External links
Terminology and use[edit]
Satellite photo of the Scandinavian Peninsula, March 2002
Scandinavia originally referred vaguely to Scania, a formerly Danish region that became Swedish in the 17th century
"Scandinavia" usually refers to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden.[5] Some sources argue for the inclusion of the Faroe Islands, Finland and Iceland,[2][6][7][8][9] though that broader region is usually known by the countries concerned as Norden (Finnish Pohjoismaat, Icelandic Norurlndin, Faroese Norurlond), or the Nordic countries.[10]
The three monarchies (Denmark, Norway, and Sweden) that compose Scandinavia according to the normal definition
The extended usage in English: Iceland and the Faroe Islands on account of their populations being largely descended from Scandinavians, the land Islands for its ethnic Swedish population, Finland on account of its historical association with Sweden and its Swedish minority.
The use of the name "Scandinavia" as a convenient general term for the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway and Sweden is fairly recent; according to some historians, it was adopted and introduced in the eighteenth century, at a time when the ideas about a common heritage started to appear and develop into early literary and linguistic Scandinavism.[4] Before this time, the term Scandinavia was familiar mainly to classical scholars through Pliny the Elder's writings, and was used vaguely for Scania and the southern region of the peninsula.[4]
As a political term, "Scandinavia" was first used by students agitating for Pan-Scandinavianism in the 1830s.[4] The popular usage of the term in Sweden, Denmark and Norway as a unifying concept became established in the nineteenth century through poems such as Hans Christian Andersen's "I am a Scandinavian" of 1839. After a visit to Sweden, Andersen became a supporter of early political Scandinavism. In a letter describing the poem to a friend, he wrote: "All at once I understood how related the Swedes, the Danes and the Norwegians are, and with this feeling I wrote the poem immediately after my return: 'We are one people, we are called Scandinavians!'"[11]
Finland[edit]
The clearest example of the use of the term "Scandinavia" as a political and societal construct is the unique position of Finland, based largely on the fact that most of modern-day Finland was part of the Swedish kingdom for hundreds of years, thus to much of the world associating Finland with all of Scandinavia. But the creation of a Finnish identity is unique in the region in that it was formed in relation to two different imperial models, the Swedish[12] and the Russian,[13][14] as described by the University of Jyvskyl based editorial board of the Finnish journal Yearbook of Political Thought and Conceptual History.[15]
The term is often defined according to the conventions of the cultures that lay claim to the term in their own use.[16] When a speaker wants to explicitly include Finland alongside Scandinavia-proper, the geographic terms Fenno-Scandinavia or Fennoscandia are sometimes used in English, although these terms are hardly if at all used within Scandinavia. More precisely, and subject to no dispute, is that Finland is included in the broader term 'Nordic countries'.
Societal and tourism promotional organizations[edit]
Various promotional agencies of the Nordic countries in the United States (such as The American-Scandinavian Foundation, established in 1910 by the Danish American industrialist Niels Poulsen) serve to promote market and tourism interests in the region. Today, the five Nordic heads of state act as the organization's patrons and according to the official statement by the organization, its mission is "to promote the Nordic region as a whole while increasing the visibility of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden in New York City and the United States."[17] The official tourist boards of Scandinavia sometimes cooperate under one umbrella, such as the Scandinavian Tourist Board.[18] The cooperation was introduced for the Asian market in 1986, when the Swedish national tourist board joined the Danish national tourist board to coordinate intergovernmental promotion of the two countries. Norway's government entered one year later. All five Nordic governments participate in the joint promotional efforts in the United States through the Scandinavian Tourist Board of North America.[19]
Use of Nordic countries vs. Scandinavia[edit]
For more details on this terminology, see Nordic countries.
While the term Scandinavia is commonly used for Denmark, Norway and Sweden, the term the Nordic countries is used unambiguously for Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland, including their associated territories (Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and the land Islands).[20] Scandinavia can thus be considered a subset of the Nordic countries. Furthermore, the term Fennoscandia refers to Scandinavia, Finland and Karelia, excluding Denmark and overseas territories; however, the usage of this term is restricted to geology, when speaking of the Fennoscandian Shield (Baltic Shield).
In addition to the mainland Scandinavian countries of:
Denmark (Constitutional monarchy with a Parliamentary system)
Norway (Constitutional monarchy with a Parliamentary system)
Sweden (Ceremonial monarchy with a Parliamentary system)
the Nordic countries also consist of:
Finland (Parliamentary republic)
Iceland (Parliamentary republic)
land Islands (an autonomous province of Finland since 1920)
Faroe Islands (an autonomous country within the Danish Realm, self-governed since 1948)
Greenland (an autonomous country within the Danish Realm, self-governed since 1979)
Svalbard, which is under Norwegian sovereignty, is not considered part of Scandinavia as a cultural-historical region; but as a part of the Kingdom of Norway (since 1925), it is part of the Nordic countries (Norden).
Estonia has applied for membership in the Nordic Council, referring to its cultural heritage and close linguistic links to Finland, and historical connections to both Denmark and Sweden, although normally Estonia is regarded as one of the Baltic countries. It is similar to the situation of Finland around the 1920s as Finland was considered to be one of the Baltic States as well,[citation needed] as it too had emerged from Russian domination along with the other three countries under similar circumstances. While Finnish and Estonian are Finnic languages, Latvian and Lithuanian are Baltic languages.
It should be noted that whereas the term "Scandinavia" is relatively straightforward as traditionally relating to the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway and Sweden there exists some ambiguity as regards the ethnic aspect of the concept in the modern era. Traditionally, the term refers specifically to the majority peoples of Denmark, Norway and Sweden, their states, their Germanic languages and their culture. In the modern era, the term will often include minority peoples such as the Sami and Menkieli speakers in a political and to some extent cultural sense, as they are citizens of Scandinavian countries and speak Scandinavian languages either as their first or second language. However, Scandinavian is still also seen as an ethnic term for the Germanic majority peoples of Scandinavia, and as such, the inclusion of Sami and Finnish speakers can be seen as controversial within these groups.
Etymology[edit]
The original areas inhabited (during the Bronze Age) by the peoples since known as Scandinavians included what is now Northern Germany (particularly Schleswig-Holstein), all of Denmark, southern Sweden, and the southern coast of Norway. Namesake Scania found itself in the centre.
Late Baltic Ice Lake around 10,300 years B.P., with a channel near Mount Billingen through what is now central Sweden (political boundaries added)
Scandinavia and Scania (Skne, the southernmost province of Sweden) are considered to have the same etymology. Both terms are thought to go back to the Proto-Germanic compound *Skain-awj, which appears later in Old English as Scedenig and in Old Norse as Skney.[21] The earliest identified source for the name Scandinavia is Pliny the Elder's Natural History, dated to the first century A.D.
Various references to the region can also be found in Pytheas, Pomponius Mela, Tacitus, Ptolemy, Procopius and Jordanes, usually in the form of Scandza. It is believed that the name used by Pliny may be of West Germanic origin, originally denoting Scania.[22] According to some scholars, the Germanic stem can be reconstructed as *Skaan- meaning "danger" or "damage" (English scathing, German Schaden, Dutch schade).[23] The second segment of the name has been reconstructed as *awj, meaning "land on the water" or "island". The name Scandinavia would then mean "dangerous island", which is considered to refer to the treacherous sandbanks surrounding Scania.[23] Skanr in Scania, with its long Falsterbo reef, has the same stem (skan) combined with -r, which means "sandbanks".
In the reconstructed Germanic root *Skain-awj (the edh represented in Latin by t or d), the first segment is sometimes considered more uncertain than the second segment. The American Heritage Dictionary[24] derives the second segment from Proto-Indo-European *akwa-, "water", in the sense of "watery land".
The Old Norse goddess name Skai, along with Sca(n)dinavia and Skney, may be related to Gothic skadus, Old English sceadu, Old Saxon scado, and Old High German scato (meaning "shadow"). Scholar John McKinnell comments that this etymology suggests that the goddess Skai may have once been a personification of the geographical region of Scandinavia or associated with the underworld.[25]
Pliny the Elder's descriptions[edit]
Pliny's descriptions of Scatinavia and surrounding areas are not always easy to decipher. Writing in the capacity of a Roman admiral, he introduces the northern region by declaring to his Roman readers that there are 23 islands "Romanis armis cognitae" ("known to Roman arms") in this area. According to Pliny, the "clarissima" ("most famous") of the region's islands is Scatinavia, of unknown size. There live the Hilleviones. The belief that Scandinavia was an island became widespread among classical authors during the first century and dominated descriptions of Scandinavia in classical texts during the centuries that followed.
Pliny begins his description of the route to Scatinavia by referring to the mountain of Saevo (mons Saevo ibi), the Codanus Bay (Codanus sinus) and the Cimbrian promontory.[26] The geographical features have been identified in various ways; by some scholars "Saevo" is thought to be the mountainous Norwegian coast at the entrance to Skagerrak and the Cimbrian peninsula is thought to be Skagen, the north tip of Jutland, Denmark. As described, Saevo and Scatinavia can also be the same place.
Pliny mentions Scandinavia one more time: in Book VIII he says that the animal called achlis (given in the accusative, achlin, which is not Latin), was born on the island of Scandinavia.[27] The animal grazes, has a big upper lip and some mythical attributes.
The name "Scandia", later used as a synonym for Scandinavia, also appears in Pliny's Naturalis Historia, but is used for a group of Northern European islands which he locates north of Britannia. "Scandia" thus does not appear to be denoting the island Scadinavia in Pliny's text. The idea that "Scadinavia" may have been one of the "Scandiae" islands was instead introduced by Ptolemy (c. 90  c. 168AD), a mathematician, geographer and astrologer of Roman Egypt. He used the name "Skandia" for the biggest, most easterly of the three "Scandiai" islands, which according to him were all located east of Jutland.[23]
Neither Pliny's nor Ptolemy's lists of Scandinavian tribes include the Suiones mentioned by Tacitus. Some early Swedish scholars of the Swedish Hyperborean school[28] and of the 19th-century romantic nationalism period proceeded to synthesize the different versions by inserting references to the Suiones, arguing that they must have been referred to in the original texts and obscured over time by spelling mistakes or various alterations.[29][30]
Germanic reconstruction[edit]
The Latin names in Pliny's text gave rise to different forms in medieval Germanic texts. In Jordanes' history of the Goths (AD 551) the form Scandza is the name used for their original home, separated by sea from the land of Europe (chapter 1, 4).[31] Where Jordanes meant to locate this quasi-legendary island is still a hotly debated issue, both in scholarly discussions and in the nationalistic discourse of various European countries.[32][33] The form Scadinavia as the original home of the Langobards appears in Paulus Diaconus' Historia Langobardorum;[34] in other versions of Historia Langobardorum appear the forms Scadan, Scandanan, Scadanan and Scatenauge.[35] Frankish sources used Sconaowe and Aethelweard, an Anglo-Saxon historian, used Scani.[36][37] In Beowulf, the forms Scedenige and Scedeland are used, while the Alfredian translation of Orosius and Wulfstan's travel accounts used the Old English Sconeg.[37]
Sami etymology[edit]
Kautokeino, the main Sami city in Norway
The earliest Sami yoik texts written down refer to the world as Skadesi-suolo (north-Sami) and Skasul (east-Sami), meaning "Skai's island" (Svennung 1963). Svennung considers the Sami name to have been introduced as a loan word from the North Germanic languages;[38] "Skai" is the giant stepmother of Freyr and Freyja in Norse mythology. It has been suggested that Skai to some extent is modeled on a Sami woman. The name for Skade's father Thjazi is known in Sami as hci, "the waterman", and her son with Odin, Saeming, can be interpreted as a descendent of Saam the Sami population (Mundel 2000),[39] (Steinsland 1991).[40] Older joik texts give evidence of the old Sami belief about living on an island and state that the wolf is known as suolu gievra, meaning "the strong one on the island." The Sami place name Sulliidielbma means "the island's threshold" and Suoloielgi means "the island's back."
In recent substrate studies, Sami linguists have examined the initial cluster sk- in words used in Sami and concluded that sk- is a phonotactic structure of alien origin.[41]
Other etymologies[edit]
Another possibility is that all or part of the segments of the name came from the Mesolithic people inhabiting the region.[42] In modernity, Scandinavia is a peninsula, but between approximately 10,300 and 9,500 years ago, the southern part of Scandinavia was an island separated from the northern peninsula, with water exiting the Baltic Sea through the area where Stockholm is now located.[43]
Some Basque scholars have presented the idea that the segment sk that appears in *Skainawj is connected to the name for the Euzko peoples, akin to Basques, that populated Paleolithic Europe. According to some of these intellects, Scandinavian people share particular genetic markers with the Basque people.[42]
Geography[edit]
Galdhpiggen is the highest point in Scandinavia, and is a part of the Scandinavian Mountains
See also: Geography of Denmark, Geography of Finland, Geography of Iceland, Geography of Norway, and Geography of Sweden
The geography of Scandinavia is extremely varied. Notable are the Norwegian fjords, the Scandinavian Mountains, the flat, low areas in Denmark, and the archipelagos of Sweden and Norway. Sweden has many lakes and moraines, legacies of the ice age.
The climate varies from north to south and from west to east; a marine west coast climate (Cfb) typical of western Europe dominates in Denmark, southernmost part of Sweden and along the west coast of Norway reaching north to 65N, with orographic lift giving more mm/year precipitation (<5000mm) in some areas in western Norway. The central part  from Oslo to Stockholm  has a humid continental climate (Dfb), which gradually gives way to subarctic climate (Dfc) further north and cool marine west coast climate (Cfc) along the northwestern coast. A small area along the northern coast east of the North Cape has tundra climate (Et) as a result of a lack of summer warmth. The Scandinavian Mountains block the mild and moist air coming from the southwest, thus northern Sweden and the Finnmarksvidda plateau in Norway receive little precipitation and have cold winters. Large areas in the Scandinavian mountains have alpine tundra climate.
The warmest temperature ever recorded in Scandinavia is 38.0C in Mlilla (Sweden).[44] The coldest temperature ever recorded is 52.6C in Vuoggatjlme (Sweden).[45] The coldest month was February 1985 in Vittangi (Sweden) with a mean of 27.2C.[45]
Southwesterly winds further warmed by foehn wind can give warm temperatures in narrow Norwegian fjords in winter; Tafjord has recorded 17.9C in January and Sunndal 18.9C in February.
Languages in Scandinavia[edit]
Main articles: North Germanic languages, Sami languages, Finnic languages, and Scandoromani
Two language groups have coexisted on the Scandinavian peninsula since prehistorythe North Germanic languages (Scandinavian languages) and the Sami languages.[46] Due to later migrations, Finnish, Yiddish and Romani have also been spoken for over a hundred years. Denmark also has a minority of German-speakers. More recent migrations has added even more languages. Apart from Sami and the languages of minority groups speaking a variant of the majority language of a neighboring state, the following minority languages in Scandinavia are protected under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages: Yiddish, Romani Chib, Romanes and Romani.
North Germanic languages[edit]
Main article: North Germanic languages
Continental Scandinavian languages:
Danish
Norwegian
Swedish
Insular Scandinavian languages:
Faroese
Icelandic
The North Germanic languages of Scandinavia are traditionally divided into an East Scandinavian branch (Danish and Swedish) and a West Scandinavian branch (Norwegian, Icelandic, and Faroese),[47][48] but because of changes appearing in the languages since 1600, the East Scandinavian and West Scandinavian branches are now usually reconfigured into Insular Scandinavian (-nordisk/y-nordisk) featuring Icelandic and Faroese[49] and Continental Scandinavian (Skandinavisk), comprising Danish, Norwegian, and Swedish.[50] The modern division is based on the degree of mutual comprehensibility between the languages in the two branches.[51] The populations of the Scandinavian countries, with a Scandinavian mother tongue, canat least with some trainingunderstand each other's standard languages as they appear in print and are heard on radio and television.
The reason Danish, Swedish and the two official written versions of Norwegian (Nynorsk and Bokml) are traditionally viewed as different languages, rather than dialects of one common language, is that each is a well-established standard language in its respective country. Danish, Swedish and Norwegian have, since medieval times, been influenced to varying degrees by Middle Low German and standard German. A substantial amount of that influence was a by-product of the economic activity generated by the Hanseatic League.
Norwegians are accustomed to variation, and may perceive Danish and Swedish only as slightly more distant dialects. This is because they have two official written standards, in addition to the habit of strongly holding on to local dialects. The people of Stockholm, Sweden and Copenhagen, Denmark, have the greatest difficulty in understanding other Scandinavian languages.[52] In the Faroe Islands and Iceland, learning Danish is mandatory. This causes Faroese people as well as Icelandic people to become bilingual in two very distinct North Germanic languages, making it relatively easy for them to understand the other two Mainland Scandinavian languages.[53][54]
Although Iceland was under the political control of Denmark until a much later date (1918), very little influence and borrowing from Danish has occurred in the Icelandic language.[55] Icelandic remained the preferred language among the ruling classes in Iceland; Danish was not used for official communications, most of the royal officials were of Icelandic descent and the language of the church and law courts remained Icelandic.[56]
Finnish[edit]
The Scandinavian languages are (as a language family) entirely unrelated to Finnish, Estonian, and Sami languages, which as Uralic languages are distantly related to Hungarian. Owing to the close proximity, there is still a great deal of borrowing from the Swedish and Norwegian languages in the Finnish and Sami languages.[57] The long history of linguistic influence of Swedish on Finnish is also due to the fact that Finnish, the language of the majority in Finland, was treated as a minority language while Finland was part of Sweden. Finnish-speakers had to learn Swedish in order to advance to higher positions.[58] Swedish spoken in today's Finland includes a lot of words that are borrowed from Finnish, whereas the written language remains closer to that of Sweden.
Finland is officially bilingual, with Finnish and Swedish having mostly the same status at national level. Finland's majority population are Finns, whose mother tongue is either Finnish (approximately 95%), Swedish or both; the Swedish speaking minority lives mainly on the coast from the city of Porvoo, in the Gulf of Finland, to the city of Kokkola, up in the Bothnian Bay. The land Islands, an autonomous province of Finland, situated in the Baltic Sea between Finland and Sweden, is entirely Swedish speaking. Children are taught the other official language at school; for Swedish-speakers, this is Finnish (usually from the 3rd grade), and for Finnish-speakers, Swedish (usually from the 3rd, 5th or 7th grade).
Finnish speakers constitute a language minority in Sweden and Norway. There are also languages derived from Finnish, having evolved separately, known as Menkieli in Sweden and Kven in Norway.
Sami languages[edit]
Historically verified distribution of the Sami languages(legend)
The Sami languages are indigenous minority languages in Scandinavia.[59] They belong to their own branch of the Uralic language family and are unrelated to the North Germanic languages other than by limited grammatical (particularly lexical) characteristics resulting from prolonged contact.[57] Sami is divided into several languages or dialects.[60] Consonant gradation is a feature in both Finnish and northern Sami dialects, but it is not present in south Sami, which is considered to have a different language history. According to the Sami Information Centre of the Sami Parliament in Sweden, southern Sami may have originated in an earlier migration from the south into the Scandinavian peninsula.[57]
History[edit]
For a more in-depth look at the history of the region, see History of Scandinavia.
The area of Sweden when Finland was a part of it from ca. 1249 until 1809.
During a period of Christianization and state formation in the 10th13th centuries, numerous Germanic petty kingdoms and chiefdoms were unified into three kingdoms:
Denmark, forged from the Lands of Denmark (including Jutland, Zealand and Scania (Skneland) on the Scandinavian Peninsula.[61])
Sweden, forged from the Lands of Sweden on the Scandinavian Peninsula (excluding the provinces Bohusln, Hrjedalen, Jmtland and Idre & Srna, Halland, Blekinge and Scania of modern-day Sweden, but including most of modern Finland.)
Norway (including Bohusln, Hrjedalen, Jmtland and Idre & Srna on the Scandinavian Peninsula, and its island colonies Iceland, Greenland, Faroe Islands, Shetland, Orkney, Isle of Man and the Hebrides.)
The Kalmar Union c.1400.
The three Scandinavian kingdoms joined in 1387 in the Kalmar Union under Queen Margaret I of Denmark. Sweden left the union in 1523 under King Gustav Vasa. In the aftermath of Sweden's secession from the Kalmar Union, civil war broke out in Denmark and Norway. The Protestant Reformation followed. When things had settled, the Norwegian Privy Council was abolishedit assembled for the last time in 1537. A personal union, entered into by the kingdoms of Denmark and Norway in 1536, lasted until 1814. Three sovereign successor states have subsequently emerged from this unequal union: Denmark, Norway and Iceland.
The borders between the three countries got the shape they have had since in the middle of the seventeenth century: In the 1645 Treaty of Brmsebro, DenmarkNorway ceded the Norwegian provinces of Jmtland, Hrjedalen and Idre & Srna, as well as the Baltic Sea islands of Gotland and sel (in Estonia) to Sweden. The Treaty of Roskilde, signed in 1658, forced DenmarkNorway to cede the Danish provinces Scania, Blekinge, Halland, Bornholm and the Norwegian provinces of Bhuslen and Trndelag to Sweden. The 1660 Treaty of Copenhagen forced Sweden to return Bornholm and Trndelag to DenmarkNorway, and to give up its recent claims to the island Funen.[62]
In the east, Finland, was a fully incorporated part of Sweden since medieval times until the Napoleonic wars, when it was ceded to Russia. Scandinavia has, despite many wars over the years since the formation of the three kingdoms, been politically and culturally close.
Scandinavian unions[edit]
DenmarkNorway as a historiographical name refers to the former political union consisting of the kingdoms of Denmark and Norway, including the Norwegian dependencies of Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The corresponding adjective and demonym is Dano-Norwegian. During Danish rule, Norway kept its separate laws, coinage and army, as well as some institutions such as a royal chancellor. Norway's old royal line had died out with the death of Olav IV[63] in 1387, but Norway's remaining a hereditary kingdom became an important factor for the Oldenburg dynasty of DenmarkNorway in its struggles to win elections as kings of Denmark.
The Treaty of Kiel (14 January 1814) formally dissolved the Dano-Norwegian union and ceded the territory of Norway proper to the King of Sweden, but Denmark retained Norway's overseas possessions. However, widespread Norwegian resistance to the prospect of a union with Sweden induced the governor of Norway, crown prince Christian Frederick (later Christian VIII of Denmark), to call a constituent assembly at Eidsvoll in April 1814. The assembly drew up a liberal constitution and elected Christian Frederick to the throne of Norway. Following a Swedish invasion during the summer, the peace conditions of the Convention of Moss (14 August 1814) specified that king Christian Frederik had to resign, but Norway would keep its independence and its constitution within a personal union with Sweden. Christian Frederik formally abdicated on 10 August 1814 and returned to Denmark. The Norwegian parliament Storting elected king Charles XIII of Sweden as king of Norway on 4 November.
The Storting dissolved the union between Sweden and Norway in 1905, after which the Norwegians elected Prince Charles of Denmark as king of Norway: he reigned as Haakon VII.
Political Scandinavism[edit]
Main article: Scandinavism
See also: Politics of Denmark, Politics of Finland, Politics of Iceland, Politics of Norway, and Politics of Sweden
Scandinavia as a 19th-century political vision (Scandinavism): A Norwegian, a Dane and a Swede. This image is considered emblematic of Scandinavism and is widely used in Scandinavian school books
The modern use of the term Scandinavia has been influenced by Scandinavism (the Scandinavist political movement), which was active in the middle of the nineteenth century, mainly between the First Schleswig War (18481850), in which Sweden and Norway contributed with considerable military force, and the Second Schleswig War (1864).
The Swedish king also proposed a unification of Denmark, Norway and Sweden into a single united kingdom. The background for the proposal was the tumultuous events during the Napoleonic wars in the beginning of the century. This war resulted in Finland (formerly the eastern third of Sweden) becoming the Russian Grand Duchy of Finland in 1809 and Norway (de jure in union with Denmark since 1387, although de facto treated as a province) becoming independent in 1814, but thereafter swiftly forced to accept a personal union with Sweden. The dependent territories Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Greenland, historically part of Norway, remained with Denmark in accordance with the Treaty of Kiel. Sweden and Norway were thus united under the Swedish monarch, but Finland's inclusion in the Russian Empire excluded any possibility for a political union between Finland and any of the other Nordic countries.
The end of the Scandinavian political movement came when Denmark was denied the military support promised from Sweden and Norway to annex the (Danish) Duchy of Schleswig, which together with the (German) Duchy of Holstein had been in personal union with Denmark. The Second war of Schleswig followed in 1864, a brief but disastrous war between Denmark and Prussia (supported by Austria). Schleswig-Holstein was conquered by Prussia, and after Prussia's success in the Franco-Prussian War a Prussian-led German Empire was created, and a new power-balance of the Baltic sea countries was established.
Even if a Scandinavian political union never came about at this point, there was a Scandinavian Monetary Union established in 1873, lasting until World War I.
See also[edit]
Baltic region
Baltoscandia
Fennoscandia
Kvenland
Nordic Council
Nordic countries
Nordic Cross Flag
Scandinavian colonialism
Scandinavian family name etymology
Scandinavian Peninsula
Scandza
Vikings
Notes[edit]
^ Danish, Swedish and archaic (Dano-)Norwegian: Skandinavien, Norwegian, Faroese and Finnish: Skandinavia, Icelandic: Skandinava, Sami: Skadesi-suolu / Skasul
References[edit]
^ John Harrison, Michael Hoyler, Megaregions: Globalization's New Urban Form? (p. 152), Edward Elgar Publishing, 2015
^ a b "Scandinavia". Encyclopdia Britannica. 2009. Retrieved 28 October 2009. Scandinavia, historically Scandinavia, part of northern Europe, generally held to consist of the two countries of the Scandinavian Peninsula, Norway and Sweden, with the addition of Denmark. Some authorities argue for the inclusion of Finland on geologic and economic grounds and of Iceland and the Faroe Islands on the grounds that their inhabitants speak Scandinavian languages related to those of Norway and Sweden and also have similar cultures.
^ "Definition of Scandinavia in English". Oxford English Dictionary. Retrieved 3 May 2016.
^ a b c d stergrd, Uffe (1997). "The Geopolitics of Nordic Identity  From Composite States to Nation States". The Cultural Construction of Norden. ystein Srensen and Bo Strth (eds.), Oslo: Scandinavian University Press 1997, 2571. Also published online at Danish Institute for International Studies. For the history of cultural Scandinavism, see Oresundstid's articles The Literary Scandinavism and The Roots of Scandinavism. Retrieved 19 January 2007. Archived 14 November 2007 at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Scandinavia". Microsoft Encarta Online Encyclopedia. Microsoft Corporation. 19972007. Archived from the original on 1 November 2009. Retrieved 30 January 2007. Scandinavia (ancient Scandia), name applied collectively to three countries of northern EuropeNorway,Sweden (which together form the Scandinavian Peninsula) and Denmark.
^ "Scandinavia". The Merriam-Webster Online Dictionary. 2008. Retrieved 9 January 2008. Scandinavia: Denmark, Norway, Swedensometimes also considered to include Iceland, the Faeroe Islands, & Finland.
^ Lonely Planet Scandinavian Europe. 2009.
^ The Rough Guide to Scandinavia. 2008.
^ "Official Site of Scandinavian Tourist Board of North America". 2009. Retrieved 23 October 2008.
^ "About Nordic co-operation". Nordic Council of Ministers & Nordic Council. 1 October 2007. Retrieved 25 March 2014. Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and the Faroe Islands, Greenland and land work together in the official Nordic co-operation.
^ Hans Christian Andersen and Music  I am a Scandinavian. The Royal Library of Denmark, the National Library and Copenhagen University Library. Retrieved 17 January 2007. Archived 13 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine.
^ "Finland and the Swedish Empire". Country Studies. U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 25 November 2006.
^ "Introduction: Reflections on Political Thought in Finland." Editorial. Redescriptions, Yearbook of Political Thought and Conceptual History, 1997, Volume 1, University of Jyvskyl, p. 6-7: "[T]he populist opposition both to Sweden as a former imperial country and especially to Swedish as the language of the narrow Finnish establishment has also been strong, especially in the inter-war years. [...] Finland as a unitary and homogeneous nation-state was constructed [...] in opposition to the imperial models of Sweden and Russia."
^ "The Rise of Finnish Nationalism". Country Studies. U.S. Library of Congress. Retrieved 25 November 2006: "The eighteenth century had witnessed the appearance of [...] a sense of national identity for the Finnish people, [...] an expression of the Finns' growing doubts about Swedish rule [...] The ethnic self-consciousness of Finnish speakers was given a considerable boost by the Russian conquest of Finland in 1809, because ending the connection with Sweden forced Finns to define themselves with respect to the Russians."
^ Editors and Board, Redescriptions, Yearbook of Political Thought and Conceptual History
^ Olwig, Kenneth R. "Introduction: The Nature of Cultural Heritage, and the Culture of Natural HeritageNorthern Perspectives on a Contested Patrimony". International Journal of Heritage Studies, Vol. 11, No. 1, March 2005, pp. 37.
^ About The American-Scandinavian Foundation. Official site. Retrieved 2 February 2007.
^ Scandinavian Tourist Board. Official site. Archived 17 January 2008 at the Wayback Machine.
^ The Scandinavian Tourist Board of North America. Official Website. Retrieved 2 February 2007.
^ Saetre, Elvind (1 October 2007). "About Nordic co-operation". Nordic Council of Ministers & Nordic Council. Retrieved 9 January 2008. The Nordic countries consist of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Finland, the land Islands, Iceland, Norway and Sweden.
^ Anderson, Carl Edlund in (1999). Formation and Resolution of Ideological Contrast in the Early History of Scandinavia. PhD dissertation, Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse & Celtic (Faculty of English), University of Cambridge, 1999.
^ Haugen, Einar (1976). The Scandinavian Languages: An Introduction to Their History. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press, 1976.
^ a b c Knut Helle (2003). The Cambridge History of Scandinavia: Prehistory to 1520. Cambridge University Press. ISBN978-0-521-47299-9.
^ "Island". Bartleby, American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fourth Edition, 2000.
^ John McKinnell (2005). Meeting the other in Norse myth and legend. Ds Brewer. p.63. ISBN978-1-84384-042-8.
^ Pliny the Elder. Naturalis Historia. Book IV, chapter XXXIX. Ed. Karl Friedrich Theodor Mayhoff. Online version at Persus. Retrieved 2 October 2007.
^ Pliny the Elder. Naturalis Historia. Book VIII, chapter XVII. Ed. Karl Friedrich Theodor Mayhoff. Online version at Persus. Retrieved 2 October 2007.
^ Oskar Bandle (2002). The Nordic languages: an international handbook of the history of the North Germanic languages. Mouton De Gruyter. p.358. ISBN978-3-11-014876-3.
^ Malone, Kemp (1924). "Ptolemy's Skandia". The American Journal of Philology, Vol. 45, No. 4. (1924), pp. 362370.
^ Stadius, Peter (2001). "Southern Perspectives on the North: Legends, Stereotypes, Images and Models". BaltSeaNet Working Paper 3, The Baltic Sea Area Studies, Gdansk/Berlin, 2001. Online version retrieved 2 October 2007.
^ Jordanes (translated by Charles C. Mierow), The Origins and Deeds of the Goths, 22 April 1997
^ Hoppenbrouwers, Peter (2005). Medieval Peoples Imagined. Working Paper No. 3, Department of European Studies,University of Amsterdam, ISSN 1871-1693, p. 8: "A second core area was the quasi-legendary 'Isle of Scanza', the vague indication of Scandinavia in classical ethnography, and a veritable 'hive of races and a womb of peoples' according to Jordanes' Gothic History. Not only the Goths were considered to have originated there, but also the Dacians/Danes, the Lombards, and the Burgundiansclaims that are still subject to debate."
^ Goffart, Walter (2005), "Jordaness Getica and the disputed authenticity of Gothic origins from Scandinavia". Speculum. A Journal of Medieval Studies 80, 37998
^ Paulus Diaconus, Historia Langobardorum, BIBLIOTHECA AUGUSTANA
^ History of the Langobards, Northvegr Foundation Archived 6 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Erik Bjrkman (1973). Studien zur englischen Philologie. Max Niemeyer. p.99. ISBN978-3-500-28470-5.
^ a b Richard North (1997). Heathen gods in Old English literature. Cambridge University Press. p.192. ISBN978-0-521-55183-0.
^ Svennung, J. (1963). Scandinavia und Scandia. Lateinisch-nordische Namenstudien. Almqvist & Wiksell/Harrassowitz, 1963, pp. 5456.
^ Mundel, E. (2000). "Coexistence of Saami and Norse culture  reflected in and interpreted by Old Norse myths" Coexistence of Saami and Norse culture  reflected in and interpreted by Old Norse myths University of Bergen, 11th Saga Conference Sydney 2000
^ Steinsland, Gro (1991). Det hellige bryllup og norrn kongeideologi. En analyse av hierogami-myten i Skrnisml, Ynglingatal, Hleygjatal og Hyndlulj. Oslo: Solum, 1991. (In Norwegian).
^ Aikio, A. (2004). "An essay on substrate studies and the origin of Saami". In Etymologie, Entlehnungen und Entwicklungen: Festschrift fr Jorma Koivulehto zum 70. Geburtstag. Mmoires de la Socit Nophilologique de Helsinki 63, Eds. Irma Hyvrinen / Petri Kallio / Jarmo Korhonen, Helsinki, pp. 534 (p. 14: "On the basis of Scandinavian loanwords it can be inferred that both sk- and -- were adopted in the west during the early separate development of the Saami languages, but never spread to Kola Saami. These areal features thus emerged in a phase when Proto-Saami began to diverge into dialects anticipating the modern Saami languages.")
^ a b J. F. Del Giorgio (24 May 2006). The Oldest Europeans: Who Are We? Where Do We Come From? What Made European Women Different?. A J Place. ISBN978-980-6898-00-4.
^ Ucinowicz, Szymon (2003). "How the Baltic Sea was changing". Marine Geology Branch, Polish Geological Institute, 9 June 2003. Retrieved 13 January 2008.
^ Hgsta uppmtta temperatur i Sverige
^ a b Lgsta uppmtta temperatur i Sverige Archived 28 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine.
^ Dirmid R. F. Collis (1990). Arctic languages: an awakening. Unipub. p.440. ISBN978-92-3-102661-4.
^ Aschehoug og Gyldendals store norske leksikon: Nar  Pd. 1999. ISBN978-82-573-0703-5.
^ Gordon, Raymond G., Jr. (ed.), 2005. Ethnologue: Languages of the World, Fifteenth edition. Dallas, Tex.: SIL International
^ Jnsson, Jhannes Gsli and Thrhallur Eythrsson (2004). "Variation in subject case marking in Insular Scandinavian". Nordic Journal of Linguistics (2005), 28: 223245 Cambridge University Press. Retrieved 9 November 2007.
^ Bernd Heine; Tania Kuteva (2006). The changing languages of Europe. Oxford University Press, USA. ISBN978-0-19-929734-4.
^ Iben Stampe Sletten; Nordisk Ministerrd (2005). Nordens sprog med rdder og fdder. p.2. ISBN978-92-893-1041-3.
^ "Urban misunderstandings", Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, Copenhagen.
^ Faroese and Norwegians best at understanding Nordic neighbours, Nordisk Sprogrd, Nordic Council, 13 January 2005.
^ Aalnmskr grunnskla: Erlend tunguml, ISMennt, EAN, 1999.
^ Holmarsdottir, H. B. (2001). "Icelandic: A Lesser-Used Language in the Global Community". International Review of Education/ Internationale Zeitschrift fr Erziehungswissenschaft/ Revue inter. 47 (3/4): 379. doi:10.1023/A:1017918213388.
^ Hlfdanarson, Gumundur. Icelandic Nationalism: A Non-Violent Paradigm? In Nations and Nationalities in Historical Perspective. Pisa: Edizioni Plus, 2001, p. 3.
^ a b c Inez Svonni Fjllstrm (2006). "A language with deep roots".Spmi: Language history, 14 November 2006. Samiskt Informationscentrum Sametinget: "The Scandinavian languages are Northern Germanic languages. [...] Sami belongs to the Finno-Ugric language family. Finnish, Estonian, Livonian and Hungarian belong to the same language family and are consequently related to each other."
^ Suzanne Romaine (1995). Bilingualism. Wiley-Blackwell. p.323. ISBN978-0-631-19539-9.
^ Oskar Bandle (March 2005). The Nordic languages: an international handbook of the history of the North Germanic languages. Walter de Gruyter. p.2115. ISBN978-3-11-017149-5.
^ www.eng.samer.se  The Sami dialects Sapmi: The Sami dialects
^ Oskar Bandle (2002). The Nordic languages: an international handbook of the history of the North Germanic languages. Mouton De Gruyter. ISBN978-3-11-014876-3.
^ "Treaty of Copenhagen" (2006). In Encyclopdia Britannica. Retrieved 9 November 2006, from Encyclopdia Britannica Online.
^ The Monarchy: Historical Background. The Royal House of Norway. Official site. Retrieved 9 November 2006.[dead link]
External links[edit]
Look up scandinavia in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to:
Scandinavia (category)
Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopdia Britannica article Scandinavian Civilization.
"Scandinavia: Official Website of the Scandinavian Tourist Boards in North America". Scandinavian Tourist Boards in North America, Globescope Internet Services, Inc. 2005. Retrieved 5 September 2008.
Nordic Council  Official site for co-operation in the Nordic region
Nordregio  Site established by the Nordic Council of Ministers
vifanord  a digital library that provides scientific information on the Nordic and Baltic countries as well as the Baltic region as a whole
Where is Scandinavia? - Video link
Authority control
WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 260843968
LCCN: sh85117937
GND: 4055209-3
BNF: cb15238529v (data)
NDL: 00571659
BNE: XX451129
v
t
e
Regions of the world
Africa
Mediterranean
Northern
Gibraltar Arc
Maghreb (Barbary Coast)
Barbara (region)
Atlas Mountains
Sahara
Sahel
Egypt (Upper Egypt, Middle Egypt, Lower Egypt, Bashmur)
Nubia (Lower Nubia)
Nile Valley
Nile Delta
Middle East
Sub-Saharan
Western
East
East African Rift: Great Rift Valley, Western or Albertine Rift Valley, Eastern or Gregory Rift Valley, Southern Rift Valley, Rift Valley Lakes (Great Lakes)
Central
Mittelafrika
Southern
Horn
Ethiopian Highlands (Roof of Africa)
Sudan (region)
Guinea region
Rhodesia (region) (Northern Rhodesia, Southern Rhodesia)
Negroland
Mayombe
Igboland (Mbaise)
Maputaland
Congo Basin
Chad Basin
Swahili coast
Pepper Coast
Gold Coast
Slave Coast
Ivory Coast
Tropical Africa
Islands
Madagascar
Anglophone Africa
Francophone Africa
Lusophone Africa
Arabophone Africa
North
America
Contiguous United States
Northern
Pacific Northwest
Northeastern United States
New England
Midwest
Mid-Atlantic
Western United States
Southwest
Llano Estacado
Mountain States
South Central United States
Southern United States
East Coast
West Coast
Gulf Coast
Bible Belt
Rust Belt
Appalachia
Great Plains
Great Lakes
Eastern Canada
Western Canada
Canadian Prairies
Northern Canada
Atlantic Canada
North Mexico
Gulf of Mexico
West Indies
Caribbean (Greater Antilles, Lesser Antilles, Lucayan Archipelago
Western Caribbean Zone
Central
Isthmus of Panama
Mosquito Coast
Middle
Mesoamerica
Aridoamerica
Oasisamerica
Anglo
French
Latin(Hispanic)
American Cordillera
Ring of Fire
South
America
Southern
Northern(Guianan states)
West South America (Andean States)
West Indies
Patagonia
Pampas
Pantanal
Amazon
Amazonia
Altiplano
Andes
Brazilian Highlands
Caribbean South America
Gran Chaco
Llanos
Atacama Desert
Cerrado
Latin(Hispanic)
American Cordillera
Ring of Fire
Asia
Central
Aral Sea
Aralkum Desert
Caspian Sea
Dead Sea
Transoxiana (Turan)
Greater Khorasan
Ariana
Khwarezm
Sistan
Kazakhstania
Far East
Russian Far East
Extreme North
Eurasian Steppe
PonticCaspian steppe
Wild Fields
Yedisan
Muravsky Trail
Ural (region)
Volga region
Idel-Ural
Kolyma
Transbaikal
Pryazovia
Bjarmaland
Kuban
Zalesye
Ingria
Novorossiya
Gornaya Shoriya
Tulgas
Siberia
Eastern
Northeastern
Inner Asia
Manchuria
Outer Manchuria
Tibet
Guanzhong
Huizhou (region)
Wu (region)
Ordos Loop
Yangtze River Delta
Northern
Southern
Southeastern
Mainland (Indochina)
Maritime (Malay Archipelago)
East Indies (Greater India)
Indian subcontinent
Himalayas
Mahabharata Range
Hindu Kush
Ganges Basin
Ganges Delta
Balochistan
Rajputana
Punjab (region)
Thar Desert
Indus Valley
Indus River Delta
Indo-Gangetic Plain
Eastern Coastal Plains
Western Coastal Plains
Hindi Belt
Doab
Great Rann of Kutch
Little Rann of Kutch
Deccan plateau
Coromandel Coast
Konkan
Lakshadweep
Andaman and Nicobar Islands
Maldive Islands
Western
Red Sea
Middle East (Near East)
Arabian Peninsula
Persian Gulf
Pirate Coast
Najd
Hejaz
Tihamah
Eastern Arabia
Southern Arabia
Hadhramaut
Mediterranean Sea
Eastern Mediterranean
Zagros Mountains
TigrisEuphrates river system
Mesopotamia (Upper Mesopotamia, Lower Mesopotamia, Sawad)
Canaan
Aram (Biblical region)
Levant (Mashriq)
Southern Levant
Levantine Sea
Gaza Strip
West Bank
Galilee
Gilead
Judea
Samaria
Arabah
Transjordan
Jordan Rift Valley
Sinai Peninsula
Caucasus
Transcaucasia
Arabian Desert
Syrian Desert
Fertile Crescent
Syria (region) (Greater Syria)
Palestine (region)
Anatolia (Asia Minor)
Cilicia
Cappadocia
Asia-Pacific
Tropical Asia
Ring of Fire
Europe
Central
Mitteleuropa
Danubian countries
Prussia (region)
Lithuania Minor
Northern
Nordic
Northwestern
Scandinavia
Scandinavian Peninsula
Fennoscandian Peninsula
Spmi
Eastern
Baltic
Crimea
Donbass
Sloboda Ukraine
Southeastern
Balkans (Balkan Peninsula)
North Caucasus
Kabardia
Southern Russia
European Russia
Middle East
Southern
Italian Peninsula
Insular Italy
Iberia
Gibraltar Arc
Southeastern
Mediterranean
Western
Alpine countries
Benelux
Low Countries
Northwestern
British Isles
Channel Islands
Germanic
Romance
Celtic
Slavic countries
Eurasian Steppe
PonticCaspian steppe
Wild Fields
Pannonian Basin
Volhynia
Karelia (East Karelia, Karelia (historical province of Finland))
Oceania
Australasia
Australia
Capital Country
Eastern Australia/East Coast of Australia (Eastern Seaboard)
Lake Eyre basin
MurrayDarling basin
Northern Australia
Nullarbor Plain
Outback
Southern Australia
Sunraysia
Great Victoria Desert
New Guinea
Zealandia
Pacific Islands
Micronesia
Melanesia
Polynesia
Polar
Antarctic
Arctic
Oceans
World (Sea)
Arctic
Atlantic
Indian
Pacific
Great Barrier Reef
Mariana Trench
Ring of Fire
Southern
Convergence
List of seas
Continents of the world/ List of seas/ Physical Earth
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1261
Cached time: 20161118113109
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.508 seconds
Real time usage: 0.654 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 4584/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 189201/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 39916/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 15/40
Expensive parser function count: 6/500
Lua time usage: 0.176/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 6.63 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
478.193
1 - -total
37.00%
176.925
2 - Template:Reflist
9.91%
47.393
15 - Template:Cite_book
9.53%
45.580
6 - Template:Cite_web
7.55%
36.124
1 - Template:Regions_of_the_world
7.04%
33.665
1 - Template:Infobox_continent
6.92%
33.068
1 - Template:Navbox_with_columns
6.69%
31.969
1 - Template:Infobox
6.26%
29.954
6 - Template:Category_handler
6.16%
29.455
3 - Template:Fix
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:26740-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118113108 and revision id 750050655
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scandinavia&oldid=750050655"
Categories: ScandinaviaGeography of Northern EuropeRegions of EuropeHidden categories: Articles containing Icelandic-language textWebarchive template wayback linksAll articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from June 2016All accuracy disputesArticles with disputed statements from April 2016All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from August 2014Use dmy dates from May 2012Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiersWikipedia articles with LCCN identifiersWikipedia articles with GND identifiersWikipedia articles with BNF identifiers