Shinjuku
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For other uses, see Shinjuku (disambiguation).
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (January 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Shinjuku

Special ward
Shinjuku City[1]
Skyscrapers of Shinjuku with Mt Fuji in the background
Flag
Location of Shinjuku in Tokyo
Shinjuku
Coordinates: 354137.82N 1394212.78E / 35.6938389N 139.7035500E / 35.6938389; 139.7035500Coordinates: 354137.82N 1394212.78E / 35.6938389N 139.7035500E / 35.6938389; 139.7035500
Country
Japan
Region
Kant
Prefecture
Tokyo
Government
Mayor
Kenichi Yoshizumi
Tourism Ambassador
Godzilla
Area
Total
18.23km2 (7.04sqmi)
Population (1 May 2015)
Total
337,556
Density
18,517/km2 (47,960/sqmi)
Time zone
Japan Standard Time (UTC+9)
- Tree
Zelkova serrata
- Flower
Azalea
Phonenumber
03-3209-1111
Website
www.city.shinjuku.lg.jp
Shinjuku (, Shinjuku-ku?, "New Lodge") is a special ward in Tokyo, Japan. It is a major commercial and administrative centre, housing the busiest railway station in the world (Shinjuku Station) and the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building, the administration centre for the government of Tokyo. As of 2015, the ward has an estimated population of 337,556 and a population density of 18,517 people per km. The total area is 18.23km.[2]
Contents
1 Geography and neighborhoods
2 History
3 Economy
4 Government and politics
4.1 Elections
5 Transportation
5.1 Rail
5.2 Roads
6 Education
6.1 Colleges and universities
6.2 Schools
7 Public institutions
7.1 Libraries
7.2 Hospitals
7.3 Cultural centers
7.3.1 Museums
7.3.2 Halls
8 Sister cities
9 See also
10 References
11 External links
Geography and neighborhoods[edit]
Man with guitar immediately south of the Shinjuku JR Station, a popular busking location
Shinjuku is surrounded by Chiyoda to the east; Bunkyo and Toshima to the north; Nakano to the west, and Shibuya and Minato to the south.[3]
The current city of Shinjuku grew out of several separate towns and villages, which have retained some distinctions despite growing together as part of the Tokyo metropolis.
East Shinjuku: The area east of Shinjuku Station and surrounding Shinjuku-sanchome Station, historically known as Naito-Shinjuku, houses the city hall and the flagship Isetan department store, as well as several smaller areas of interest:
Kabukich: Tokyo's best-known red-light district, renowned for its variety of bars, restaurants, and sex-related establishments.
Golden Gai: An area of tiny shanty-style bars and clubs. Musicians, artists, journalists, actors and directors gather here, and the ramshackle walls of the bars are literally plastered with film posters.
Shinjuku Gyoen: A large park, 58.3 hectares, 3.5km in circumference, blending Japanese traditional, English Landscape and French Formal style gardens.
Shinjuku Ni-chme: Tokyo's best-known gay district.
Nishi-Shinjuku: The area west of Shinjuku Station, historically known as Yodobashi, is home to Tokyo's largest concentration of skyscrapers. Several of the tallest buildings in Tokyo are located in this area, including the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building, KDDI Building and Park Tower.
Ochiai: The northwestern corner of Shinjuku, extending to the area around Ochiai-minami-nagasaki Station and the south side of Mejiro Station, is largely residential with a small business district around Nakai Station.
kubo: The area surrounding Okubo Station, Shin-Okubo Station and Higashi-Shinjuku Station is best known as Tokyo's historic ethnic Korean neighborhood.
Totsuka: The northern portion of Shinjuku surrounding Takadanobaba Station and Waseda University. The Takadanobaba area is a major residential and nightlife area for students, as well as a commuter hub.
Ushigome: A largely residential area in the eastern portion of the city.
Ichigaya: A commercial area in eastern Shinjuku, site of the Ministry of Defense.
Kagurazaka: A hill descending to the Iidabashi Station area, once one of Tokyo's last remaining hanamachi or geisha districts, and currently known for hosting a sizable French community.[4]
Yotsuya: An upscale residential and commercial district in the southeast corner of Shinjuku. The Arakich area is well known for its many small restaurants, bars, and izakaya.
"Shinjuku" is often popularly understood to mean the entire area surrounding Shinjuku Station, but the Shinjuku Southern Terrace complex and the areas to the west of the station and south of Ksh Kaid are part of the Yoyogi district of the special ward of Shibuya.
Naturally, most of Shinjuku is occupied by the Yodobashi Plateau, the most elevated portion of which extends through most of the Shinjuku Station area. The Kanda River runs through the Ochiai and Totsuka areas near sea level, but the Toshima Plateau also builds elevation in the northern extremities of Totsuka and Ochiai. The highest point in Shinjuku is Hakone-san in Toyama Park, 44.6 m above sea level.[5]
History[edit]
Shinjuku at night
Street level in Shinjuku
In 1634, during the Edo period, as the outer moat of the Edo Castle was built, a number of temples and shrines moved to the Yotsuya area on the western edge of Shinjuku. In 1698, Nait-Shinjuku had developed as a new (shin) station (shuku or juku) on the Ksh Kaid, one of the major highways of that era. Nait was the family name of a daimyo whose mansion stood in the area; his land is now a public park, the Shinjuku Gyoen.
In 1920, the town of Nait-Shinjuku, which comprised large parts of present-day Shinjuku (the neighbourhood, not the municipality), parts of Nishi-Shinjuku and Kabukich was integrated into Tokyo City. Shinjuku began to develop into its current form after the Great Kant earthquake in 1923, since the seismically stable area largely escaped the devastation. Consequently, West Shinjuku is one of the few areas in Tokyo with many skyscrapers.
The Tokyo air raids from May to August 1945 destroyed almost 90% of the buildings in the area in and around Shinjuku Station.[6] The pre-war form of Shinjuku, and the rest of Tokyo, for that matter, was retained after the war because the roads and rails, damaged as they were, remained, and these formed the heart of the Shinjuku in the post-war construction. Only in Kabuki-cho was a grand reconstruction plan put into action.[7]
The present ward was established on March 15, 1947 with the merger of the former wards of Yotsuya, Ushigome, and Yodobashi. It served as part of the athletics 50km walk and marathon course during the 1964 Summer Olympics.[8]
In 1991, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government moved from the Marunouchi district of Chiyoda to the current building in Shinjuku. (The Tokyo International Forum stands on the former site vacated by the government.)
Economy[edit]
The area surrounding Shinjuku Station is a major economic hub of Tokyo. Many companies have their headquarters or Tokyo offices in this area, including regional telephone operator NTT East, global camera and medical device manufacturer Olympus Corporation, electronics giant Seiko Epson,[9] fast food chains McDonald's Japan and Yoshinoya,[10] travel agency H.I.S.,[11] Fuji Heavy Industries (Subaru),[12] railway operator Odakyu Electric Railway, construction giant Taisei Corporation,[13] medical equipment manufacturer Nihon Kohden,[14] Enoki Films,[15] navigation software company Jorudan,[16] instant noodle giant Nissin Foods[17] and regional airline Airtransse.[18] The station area also hosts numerous major retailers such as Mitsukoshi, Isetan, Takashimaya, Marui, Bic Camera, Yodobashi Camera and Yamada Denki.
Northeastern Shinjuku has an active publishing industry and is home to the publishers Shinchosha[19] and Futabasha.[20]
Government and politics[edit]
Shinjuku City Office
Like the other wards of Tokyo, Shinjuku has a status equivalent to that of a city. The current mayor is Kenichi Yoshizumi. The ward council (, kugikai?) consists of 38 elected members; the Liberal Democratic Party and New Komeit Party together currently hold a majority. The Democratic Party of Japan, Japanese Communist Party and the Social Democratic Party are also represented together with four independents. Shinjuku's city office (, kuyakusho?) is located on the southeastern edge of Kabukich.
Shinjuku is also the location of the metropolitan government of Tokyo. The governor's office, the metropolitan assembly chamber, and all administrative head offices are located in the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building. Technically, Shinjuku is therefore the prefectural capital of Tokyo; but according to a statement by the governor's office, Tokyo (the  as administrative unit: former  Tokyo City, the area of today's 23 special wards collectively) can usually be considered the capital of Tokyo (prefecture/"Metropolis") for geographical purposes. The Geographical Survey Institute (Kokudo Chiriin) names Tky (the city) as capital of Tky-to (the prefecture/"Metropolis").[21]
Elections[edit]
Shinjuku local election, 2004
Shinjuku mayoral election, 2006
Shinjuku local election, 2007
Transportation[edit]
Further information: Transport in Greater Tokyo
Shinjuku is a major urban transit hub. Shinjuku Station sees an estimated 3.64 million passengers pass through each day, making it the busiest station in the world. It houses interchanges to three subway lines and three privately owned commuter lines, as well as several JR lines.
Rail[edit]
A list of railway lines passing through and stations located within Shinjuku includes:
JR East
Yamanote Line: Takadanobaba, Shin-kubo, Shinjuku
Ch Line (Rapid), Ch-Sbu Line: Yotsuya, Shinanomachi, Shinjuku, kubo
Saiky Line, Shnan-Shinjuku Line: Shinjuku
Tokyo Metro
Marunouchi Line: Yotsuya, Yotsuya-sanchme, Shinjuku-gyoenmae, Shinjuku-sanchme, Shinjuku, Nishi-Shinjuku
Yrakuch Line: Ichigaya, Iidabashi
Tzai Line: Kagurazaka, Waseda, Takadanobaba, Ochiai
Fukutoshin Line: Nishi-Waseda, Higashi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-sanchme
Namboku Line: Iidabashi, Ichigaya, Yotsuya
Tokyo Metropolitan Bureau of Transportation
Toei Shinjuku Line: Akebonobashi, Shinjuku-sanchme, Shinjuku
Toei edo Line: Ochiai-Minaminagasaki, Nakai, Nishi-Shinjuku-gochme, Toch-mae, Kokuritsu-Kygij, Ushigome-Kagurazaka, Ushigome-Yanagich, Wakamatsu-Kawada, Higashi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-Nishiguchi
Toden Arakawa Line: Omokagebashi, Waseda
Odakyu Electric Railway Odawara Line: Shinjuku
Keio Corporation Keio Line, Keio New Line: Shinjuku
Seibu Railway Seibu Shinjuku Line: Seibu-Shinjuku, Takadanobaba, Shimo-Ochiai, Nakai
Roads[edit]
Traffic on me-kaid heading towards Kabukich at night
Shuto Expressway:
No.4 Shinjuku Route (Miyakezaka JCT - Takaido)
No.5 Ikebukuro Route (Takebashi JCT - Bijogi JCT)
National highways:
National Route 20 (Shinjuku-dri, Ksh-kaid)
Other major routes:
Tokyo Metropolitan Route 8 (Mejiro-dri, Shin-Mejiro-dri)
Tokyo Metropolitan Route 302 (Yasukuni-dri, me-kaid)
Tokyo Metropolitan Route 305 (Meiji-dri)
Education[edit]
Colleges and universities[edit]
Chuo University graduate school
Gakushuin Women's College
Japan Electronics College
Keio University Medical College
Kogakuin University
Lakeland College Japan
Mejiro University
Seibo College
Tokyo Fuji University
Tokyo Medical University
Tokyo University of Science
Tokyo Women's Medical University
Waseda University
Schools[edit]
Public elementary and junior high schools in Shinjuku are operated by the Shinjuku City Board of Education. Public high schools are operated by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Board of Education.
Koishikawa Technical High School
Ichigaya Commercial High School
Shinjuku High School
Shinjuku Yamabuki High School
Toyama High School
Public institutions[edit]
Tokyo Metropolitan Government Building
Libraries[edit]
Shinjuku operates several public libraries, including the Central Library (with the Children's Library), the Yotsuya Library, the Tsurumaki Library, Tsunohazu Library, the Nishi-Ochiai Library, the Toyama Library, the Kita-Shinjuku Library, the Okubo Library, and the Nakamachi Library. In addition there is a branch library, Branch Library of Central Library in the City Office, located in the city office.[22]
Hospitals[edit]
There are several major hospitals located within the city limits.
Keio University Hospital
International Medical Center of Japan
Social Insurance Ch General Hospital
Tokyo Medical University Hospital
Tokyo Women's Medical University Hospital
Tokyo Metropolitan Health and Medical Treatment Corporation Ohkubo Hospital
Cultural centers[edit]
Museums[edit]
National Printing Bureau Banknote and Postage Stamp Museum
National Museum of Nature and Science, Shinjuku Branch
Shinjuku Historical Museum
Tokyo Fire Department Museum
Halls[edit]
Tokyo Opera City
Shinjuku Bunka Center
WelCity Tokyo
Meiji Yasuda Life Hall
Shinjuku Koma Theater
Sister cities[edit]
Shinjuku has sister city agreements with several localities:[23]
Lefkada, Greece
Mitte, Berlin, Germany
Dongcheng District, Beijing, China
Ina, Nagano, Japan
See also[edit]
Tokyo portal
Tourism in Japan
References[edit]
^ Shinjuku City
^ Shinjuku City
^ Tokyo Special Wards Map
^ japanvisitor.com
^ http://www.city.shinjuku.lg.jp/content/000021207.pdf
^ History of Shinjuku
^ Ichikawa, 2003
^ 1964 Summer Olympics official report. Volume 2. Part 1. p. 74.
^ "Head Office & Japanese Facilities." Seiko Epson. Retrieved on January 13, 2009.
^ "." Yoshinoya. Retrieved on February 25, 2010.
^ "Company Info." H.I.S. Retrieved on March 11, 2010.
^ "[1]." Fuji Heavy Industries and Subaru.
^ "Corporate Data." Taisei Corporation. Retrieved on February 20, 2012. "Head Office 1-25-1, Nishi-Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 163-0606"
^ "Key Facts." Nihon Kohden. Retrieved on August 9, 2015.
^ "Home." Enoki Films. Retrieved on March 23, 2014. "Enoki Bldg., No. 2, 1-30-10 Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-0022 Japan"
^ "Headquarter." Jorduan. Retrieved on January 7, 2011. "ZIP 160-0022 2-1-9 Shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, Japan" (map)
^ "Company Profile." Nissin Foods. Retrieved on August 15, 2009.
^ "." Airtransse. Retrieved on May 20, 2009.
^ "." Shinchosha. Retrieved on June 17, 2011. "162-8711 71"
^ "." Futabasha. Retrieved on January 7, 2011. " 162-85403-28" (GIF map of location) (PDF of location)
^ Tokyo Metropolitan Government, governor's office: About Tokyo's prefectural capital (Japanese)
^ http://www.city.shinjuku.tokyo.jp/foreign/english/guide/shisetsu/shisetsu_2.html
^ Friendship cities
Shinjuku Ward Office, History of Shinjuku
Hiroo Ichikawa "Reconstructing Tokyo: The Attempt to Transform a Metropolis" in C. Hein, J.M. Diefendorf, and I. Yorifusa (Eds.) (2003). Building Urban Japan after 1945. New York: Palgrave.
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Shinjuku.
Shinjuku City official website (Japanese)
Shinjuku City official website (English)
Shinjuku travel guide from Wikivoyage (English)
Shinjuku Architecture and Map
v
t
e
Tokyo Metropolis
TokyoShinjuku (capital)
Architecture
Education
Festivals
History
Neighborhoods
Politics
Sports
Tourism
Transportation
Special Wards
of Tokyo
Adachi
Arakawa
Bunky
Chiyoda
Ch
Edogawa
Itabashi
Katsushika
Kita
Kt
Meguro
Minato
Nakano
Nerima
ta
Setagaya
Shibuya
Shinagawa
Shinjuku
Suginami
Sumida
Tait
Toshima
Western
(Tama area)
Core city
Hachiji
Cities
Akiruno
Akishima
Chfu
Fuch
Fussa
Hamura
Higashikurume
Higashimurayama
Higashiyamato
Hino
Inagi
Kiyose
Kodaira
Koganei
Kokubunji
Komae
Kunitachi
Machida
Mitaka
Musashimurayama
Musashino
Nishitky
me
Tachikawa
Tama
Nishitama District
Hinode
Mizuho
Okutama
Hinohara
Izu Islands
shima Subprefecture
shima
Toshima
Niijima
Kzushima
Miyake Subprefecture
Miyake
Mikurajima
Hachij Subprefecture
Hachij
Aogashima
Ogasawara Islands
Ogasawara Subprefecture
Ogasawara
List of mergers in Tokyo Metropolis
Portal
Category
v
t
e
Neighborhoods of Tokyo
Akasaka
Akihabara
Aobadai
Aomi
Aoyama
Ariake
Asagaya
Asakusa
Asakusabashi
Azabu
Awajich
Daikanyama
Den-en-chfu
Ebisu
Ebisuminami
Futako Tamagawa
Ginza
Gotanda
Hamamatsuch
Harajuku
Hibiya
Higashi
Higashi-Kanda
Hong
Ichigaya
Iidabashi
Ikebukuro
Iwamotoch
Jiygaoka
Jinbch
Jj
Kabukich
Kagurazaka
Kajich
Kamata
Kami-ikebukuro
Kanda
Kasumigaseki
Kichijji
Komaba
Koishikawa
Kugayama
Kudankita
Kybashi
Kenji
Kjimachi
Marunouchi
Mejiro
Mita
Meguro-Mita
Muromachi
Nagatach
Nakameguro
Nishigotanda
Nishiogikubo
Nihonbashi
Nishioizumi
Nishioizumimachi
Nishi-Shinjuku
Nishikich
Ochanomizu
Odaiba
Ogawamachi
Ogikubo
izumigakuench
mori
Omotesand
Osaki
temachi
Roppongi
Rygoku
San'ya
Sendagaya
Shiba
Shibaura
Shibuya
Shimokitazawa
Shinbashi
Shinjuku
Shinjuku ni-chme
Shinonome
Shiodome
Shirokane
Shirokanedai
Shoto
Sudach
Sugamo
Surugadai
Takadanobaba
Takanawa
Tamachi
Tateishi
Tatsumi
Toyosu
Tsukiji
Tsukishima
Uchi-Kanda
Uchisaiwaich
Ueno
Wakasu
Yaesu
Yanaka
Yayoi
Yga
Yotsuya
Yoyogi
Yrakuch
Zshigaya
v
t
e
Metropolitan cities of Japan
Tokyo Metropolis
Special wards of Tokyo
(Adachi
Arakawa
Bunkyo
Chiyoda
Ch
Edogawa
Itabashi
Katsushika
Kita
Koto
Meguro
Minato
Nakano
Nerima
ta
Setagaya
Shibuya
Shinagawa
Shinjuku
Suginami
Sumida
Toshima
Tait)
Designated cities
Chiba
Fukuoka
Hamamatsu
Hiroshima
Kawasaki
Kitakyushu
Kobe
Kumamoto
Kyoto
Nagoya
Niigata
Okayama
Osaka
Sagamihara
Saitama
Sakai
Sapporo
Sendai
Shizuoka
Yokohama
Core cities
Akita
Amagasaki
Aomori
Asahikawa
Fukuyama
Funabashi
Gifu
Hachiji
Hakodate
Higashisaka
Himeji
Hirakata
Iwaki
Kagoshima
Kanazawa
Kashiwa
Kawagoe
Kchi
Kriyama
Koshigaya
Kurashiki
Kure
Kurume
Maebashi
Matsuyama
Miyazaki
Morioka
Naha
Nagano
Nagasaki
Nara
Nishinomiya
ita
Okazaki
tsu
Sasebo
Shimonoseki
Takamatsu
Takasaki
Takatsuki
Toyama
Toyohashi
Toyonaka
Toyota
Utsunomiya
Wakayama
Yokosuka
Special cities
Akashi
Atsugi
Chigasaki
Fuji
Fukui
Hachinohe
Hiratsuka
Ibaraki
Ichinomiya
Isesaki
Jetsu
Kakogawa
Kasugai
Kasukabe
Kawaguchi
Kishiwada
Kfu
Kumagaya
Matsue
Matsumoto
Mito
Nagaoka
Neyagawa
Numazu
Odawara
ta
Saga
Ska
Suita
Takarazuka
Tokorozawa
Tottori
Tsukuba
Yamagata
Yamato
Yao
Yokkaichi
Prefectural capitals
Fukushima
Tsu
Tokushima
Yamaguchi
Note:  also a prefectural capital
v
t
e
Venues of the 1964 Summer Olympics
Asaka Nezu Park
Asaka Shooting Range
Chofu City
Enoshima
Fuchu City
Hachioji City
Hachioji Velodrome
Karasuyama-machi
Karuizawa
Kemigawa
Komazawa Gymnasium
Komazawa Hockey Field
Komazawa Olympic Park Stadium
Komazawa Volleyball Courts
Korakuen Ice Palace
Lake Sagami
Mitsuzawa Football Field
Nagai Stadium
National Gymnasium
Tokyo National Stadium
Nippon Budokan
Nishikyogoku Athletic Stadium
miya Football Field
Prince Chichiba Memorial Football Field
Sasazuka-machi
Shibuya Public Hall
Shinjuku
Toda Rowing Course
Tokorozawa Shooting Range
Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium
Tokyo Metropolitan Indoor Swimming Pool
Waseda Memorial Hall
Yokohama Cultural Gymnasium
v
t
e
Olympic venues in athletics
1896: Marathon (city), Panathenaic Stadium
1900: Croix-Catelan Stadium
1904: Francis Field
1908: White City Stadium
1912: Stockholm Olympic Stadium
1920: Olympisch Stadion
1924: Stade de Colombes
1928: Olympic Stadium
1932: Olympic Stadium, Riverside Drive at Griffith Park
1936: Avus Motor Road, Olympic Stadium
1948: Empire Stadium
1952: Olympic Stadium
1956: Melbourne Cricket Ground
1960: Arch of Constantine, Raccordo Anulare, Stadio Olimpico, Via Appia Antica, Via Cristoforo Colombo
1964: Fuchu City, Karasuyama-machi, National Stadium, Sasazuka-machi, Shinjuku
1968: Estadio Olmpico Universitario, Zcalo
1972: Olympiastadion
1976: Montreal Botanical Garden, Olympic Stadium, Streets of Montreal
1980: Grand Arena, Streets of Moscow
1984: Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, Santa Monica College, Streets of Los Angeles, Streets of Santa Monica
1988: Olympic Stadium, Streets of Seoul
1992: Estadi Olmpic de Monjuc, Marathon course, Matar, Walking course
1996: Marathon course, Olympic Stadium, Walking course
2000: Marathon course, North Sydney, Olympic Stadium
2004: Marathon (city), Olympic Stadium, Panathenaic Stadium, Stadium at Olympia
2008: Beijing National Stadium, Olympic Green Promenade Walking course, Streets of Beijing Marathon course
2012: Marathon Course, Olympic Stadium
2016: Estdio Olmpico Joo Havelange, Pontal, Sambdromo
Authority control
WorldCat Identities
VIAF: 257800929
NDL: 00263577
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:147734-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161113192308 and revision id 749322569
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shinjuku&oldid=749322569"
Categories: ShinjukuWards of Tokyo1964 Summer Olympic venuesOlympic athletics venuesHidden categories: Articles with Japanese-language external linksArticles needing additional references from January 2010All articles needing additional referencesArticles containing Japanese-language textCoordinates on WikidataCommons category with page title same as on WikidataWikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers