Socialsustainability
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Venn diagram of sustainable development:
at the confluence of three constituent parts[1]
The four domains of social sustainability according to the Circles of Sustainability approach used by the United Nations[2]
Social sustainability is the least defined and least understood of the different ways of approaching sustainability and sustainable development. Social sustainability has had considerably less attention in public dialogue than economic and environmental sustainability.
There are several approaches to social sustainability. The first, which posits a triad of environmental sustainability, economic sustainability, and social sustainability, is the most widely accepted as a model for addressing sustainability. The concept of "social sustainability" in this approach encompasses such topics as: social equity, livability, health equity, community development, social capital, social support, human rights, labour rights, placemaking, social responsibility, social justice, cultural competence, community resilience, and human adaptation.
A second, more recent, approach suggests that all of the domains of sustainability are social: including ecological, economic, political and cultural sustainability. These domains of social sustainability are all dependent upon the relationship between the social and the natural, with the "ecological domain" defined as human embeddedness in the environment. In these terms, social sustainability encompasses all human activities.[3] It is not just relevant to the focussed intersection of economics, the environment and the social.[4] (See the Venn diagram and the Circles of Sustainability diagram).
Contents
1 Definitions
2 Dimensions
3 Application and Verification
4 See also
5 References
5.1 Notes
5.2 External links
Definitions[edit]
According to the Western Australia Council of Social Services (WACOSS)[1]: "Social sustainability occurs when the formal and informal processes; systems; structures; and relationships actively support the capacity of current and future generations to create healthy and liveable communities. Socially sustainable communities are equitable, diverse, connected and democratic and provide a good quality of life."
Another definition has been developed by Social Life, a UK-based social enterprise specialising in place based innovation (originally set up by the Young Foundation). For Social Life, social sustainability is "a process for creating sustainable, successful places that promote wellbeing, by understanding what people need from the places they live and work. Social sustainability combines design of the physical realm with design of the social world  infrastructure to support social and cultural life, social amenities, systems for citizen engagement and space for people and places to evolve."[5]
Dimensions[edit]
Social Life have developed a framework for social sustainability which has four dimensions: amenities and infrastructure, social and cultural life, voice and influence, and space to grow.[5]
Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen gives the following dimensions for social sustainability [2]:
Equity - the community provides equitable opportunities and outcomes for all its members, particularly the poorest and most vulnerable members of the community
Diversity - the community promotes and encourages diversity
Interconnected/Social cohesions - the community provides processes, systems and structures that promote connectedness within and outside the community at the formal, informal and institutional level
Quality of life - the community ensures that basic needs are met and fosters a good quality of life for all members at the individual, group and community level (e.g. health, housing, education, employment, safety)
Democracy and governance - the community provides democratic processes and open and accountable governance structures.
Maturity - the individual accept the responsibility of consistent growth and improvement through broader social attributes (e.g. communication styles, behavioural patterns, indirect education and philosophical explorations)
Also we can speak of Sustainable Human Development that can be seen as development that promotes the capabilities of present people without compromising capabilities of future generations.[6] In the human development paradigm, environment and natural resources should constitute a means of achieving better standards of living just as income represents a means of increasing social expenditure and, in the end, well-being.[7]
The different aspects of social sustainability are often considered in socially responsible investing (SRI). Social sustainability criteria that are commonly used by SRI funds and indexes to rate publicly traded companies include: community, diversity, employee relations, human rights, product safety, reporting, and governance structure.[8][9]
Library resources about
Social sustainability
Resources in your library
Resources in other libraries
Application and Verification[edit]
The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights state that countries have the obligation to respect, protect, and fulfill human rights and fundamental freedoms and that business enterprises are required to comply with all applicable laws and respect human rights.[10] Both production and procurement of goods and services should be documented to verify satisfaction of these international principles and laws.[11]
The UN Guiding Principles also include a reporting framework,[12] which teaches companies how to report their interaction with human rights issues. In addition resources like Free2Work, the Global Reporting Initiative, and Business and Human Rights Resource Centre all provide information on organizational disclosures and performance in social sustainability.[13] Certifications from internationally recognized and accredited organizations are available to aid in verifying the social sustainability of products and services. The Forest Stewardship Council (paper and forest products), International Cocoa Initiative, and Kimberly Process (diamonds) are examples of such organizations and initiatives.[14]
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Circles of Sustainability
Sustainable development
Sustainability
Sustainable business
Socially responsible investing
References[edit]
Hicks, 1997 D.A. Hicks, The inequality-adjusted human development index: a constructive proposal, World Development 25 (8) (1997), pp.12831298.
Hinterberger, F., et al. (1999) Sustainable Human Development Index. A suggestion for Greening the UN Indicator of Social and Economic Welfare, Wuppertal Institute, Wuppertal.
Magee, Liam, Andy Scerri, Paul James, James A. Thom, Lin Padgham, Sarah Hickmott, Hepu Deng, Felicity Cahill (2013). "Reframing social sustainability reporting: Towards an engaged approach". Environment, Development and Sustainability. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
Magee, Liam; James, Paul; Scerri, Andy (2012). "Measuring Social Sustainability: A Community-Centred Approach". Applied Research in the Quality of Life. 7 (3): 23961.
Woodcraft, S., et al. (2012) Design for Social Sustainability, Social Life, London.
Partridge, E. (2005)Social sustainability: a useful theoretical framework? Paper presented at the Australasian Political Science Association Annual Conference 2005, Dunedin, New Zealand, 2830 September 2005
Dugarova, Esuna; et al. (2014). "Social Drivers of Sustainable Development". UNRISD, Geneva.
United Nations Development Programme (various years) Human Development Report, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
World Bank (1992) World Development Report 1992: Development and the Environment, Oxford University Press, New York.
World Commission on Environment and Development (1987) Our Common Future, Oxford University Press, Great Britain.
World Economic Forum (2002) Environmental Sustainability Index, Columbia University [3].
[15]
Notes[edit]
^ Adams, W.M. (2006). "The Future of Sustainability: Re-thinking Environment and Development in the Twenty-first Century." Report of the IUCN Renowned Thinkers Meeting, 2931 January 2006. Retrieved on: 2009-02-16.
^ http://citiesprogramme.com/archives/resource/circles-of-sustainability-urban-profile-process Liam Magee; Andy Scerri; Paul James; James A. Thom; Lin Padgham; Sarah Hickmott; Hepu Deng; Felicity Cahill (2013). "Reframing social sustainability reporting: Towards an engaged approach". Environment, Development and Sustainability.
^ James, Paul; with Magee, Liam; Scerri, Andy; Steger, Manfred B. (2015). Urban Sustainability in Theory and Practice: Circles of Sustainability. London: Routledge.
^ Liam Magee; Andy Scerri; Paul James; James A. Thom; Lin Padgham; Sarah Hickmott; Hepu Deng; Felicity Cahill (2013). "Reframing social sustainability reporting: Towards an engaged approach". Environment, Development and Sustainability.
^ a b S.Woodcraft et al (2011) Design for Social Sustainability, Social Life, London
^ Sen, A.K. (2000) The ends and means of sustainability, keynote address at the International Conference on Transition to sustainability, Tokyo, May
^ Anand, S. and Sen, A.K. (1996) Sustainable human development: concepts and priorities, Office of Development Studies Discussion Paper, No. 1, UNDP, New York
^ KLD Research. Environmental, Social and Governance Rating Criteria. 2007
^ The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, June 2008
^ United Nations Human Rights, Office of the Commissioner. "Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights" (PDF). United Nations, New York and Geneva. Retrieved 10 March 2016.
^ "Verifying Delivery of Sustainable Products and Services - GSA Sustainable Facilites Tool". sftool.gov. Retrieved 2016-03-10.
^ "UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework". www.ungpreporting.org. Retrieved 2016-03-10.
^ "Social Sustainability - GSA Sustainable Facilities Tool". sftool.gov. Retrieved 2016-03-10.
^ "Social Sustainability Initiatives, Guidelines, and Standards - GSA Sustainable Facilities Tool". sftool.gov. Retrieved 2016-03-10.
^ Raphael, Daniel. "PhD".
External links[edit]
Costantini, V., Monni, S., (2004) "Measuring Human and Sustainable Development: An integrated approach for European Countries", Working paper n. 41, Department of Economics, Roma Tre University,
Circles of Sustainability - website for the Circles of Sustainability approach
Sustainable Human Development - University of Pittsburgh
UNDP
UNDP, Integrating human rights with sustainable human development, "A UNDP policy document"
Unplanned Urban Growth and its Effect on the Sustainability Discoli, Carlos; Martini, Irene. Scientific & Academic Publishing - Resources and Environment; vol. 2, no. 3. ISSN2163-2618.
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
v
t
e
Simple living
Practices
Barter
DIY ethic
Downshifting
Dry toilet
Forest gardening
Freeganism
Frugality
Gift economy
Intentional community
Local currency
Low-impact development
Minimalism
No frills
Off-the-grid
Permaculture
Self-sufficiency
Subsistence agriculture
Sustainable living
Sustainable sanitation
Veganism
Vegetarianism
War tax resistance
WWOOF
Religious and spiritual
Asceticism
Aparigraha
Cynicism
Detachment
Distributism
Jesus movement
Mendicant
Mindfulness
Monasticism
New Monasticism
Plain dress
Plain people
Quakers
Rastafari movement
Temperance
Testimony of simplicity
Tolstoyan movement
Secular movements
Back-to-the-land
Car-free
Compassionate living
Environmental
Hippie
Slow
Small house
Transition town
Open Source Ecology
Notable writers
Wendell Berry
Ernest Callenbach
G.K. Chesterton
Duane Elgin
Mahatma Gandhi
Richard Gregg
Tom Hodgkinson
Harlan Hubbard
Satish Kumar
Helen Nearing
Scott Nearing
Peace Pilgrim
Vicki Robin
Nick Rosen
Dugald Semple
E. F. Schumacher
Henry David Thoreau
Leo Tolstoy
Modern-day adherents
Mark Boyle
Jim Merkel
Suelo
Thomas
Media
"Anekdote zur Senkung der Arbeitsmoral"
Escape from Affluenza
The Good Life
The Moon and the Sledgehammer
Mother Earth News
The Power of Half
Small Is Beautiful
Walden
Related topics
Affluenza
Agrarianism
Anarcho-primitivism
Anti-consumerism
Appropriate technology
Bohemianism
Deep ecology
Degrowth
Ecological footprint
Food miles
Green anarchism
The good life
Global warming
Hedonophobia
Intentional living
Itinerant
Low-technology
Nonviolence
Peak oil
Sustainability
Worklife balance
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:21578153-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161117014841 and revision id 748942325
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Social_sustainability&oldid=748942325"
Categories: Sustainable developmentHuman developmentHidden categories: CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list