SolarDecathlon
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Student-built houses powered exclusively by solar power on display in Washington D.C. at the Solar Decathlon 2009.
The U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon is an international collegiate competition made up of 10 contests that challenge student teams to design and build full-size, solar-powered houses. The winner of the competition is the team that best blends design excellence and smart energy production with innovation, market potential, and energy and water efficiency.
The first Solar Decathlon was held in 2002. The competition has since occurred biennially in 2005, 2007, 2009, 2011, 2013 and 2015.[1] The Solar Decathlon 2017 will be located in Denver, Colorado, adjacent to the 61st & Pea station on the University of Colorado A line commuter train connecting Denver International Airport to downtown Union Station. In addition to the competition, Solar Decathlon 2017 will also feature a sustainability expo, professional development and consumer workshops, middle-school education events, and a community festival.[2]
Open to the public and free of charge, the Solar Decathlon allows visitors to tour energy- and water-efficient houses, and gather ideas to save energy and conserve water in their own homes.
The Solar Decathlon 2017 competition is presented by the U.S. Department of Energy and administered by Energetics, Incorporated, a subsidiary of VSE Corporation. Previous competitions were administered by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL).
Since the first competition in 2002, the Solar Decathlon has expanded internationally to include four additional worldwide competitions in Europe, China, Latin America and Caribbean, and the Middle East. Solar Decathlon Europe was established under a 2007 memorandum of understanding between the United States and Spain , which hosted competitions in 2010 and 2012. France hosted in 2014.[3] The Solar Decathlon China was established with the signing of a memorandum of understanding between the U.S. Department of Energy, Chinas National Energy Administration, Peking University and Applied Materials on January 20, 2011.The first Solar Decathlon China took place in August 2013 in the city of Datong. The next Solar Decathlon China will take place in summer 2017 and was formed through a memorandum of understanding among the United States Department of Energy, the Peoples Republic of China, and the China Overseas Development Corporation.[4][5]
Solar Decathlon Latin America and Caribbean was established under a memorandum of understanding between the United States Department of Energy and the government of Colombia in 2014. The first competition was held in Cali in December 2015.
Solar Decathlon Middle East, to be held in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, in 2018, was formed by a memorandum of understanding between the United States Department of Energy and the Dubai Electricity and Water Authority in 2015.
Contents
1 History
1.1 Awards
2 Scope of contests
2.1 Contest 1: Architecture
2.2 Contest 2: Market Potential
2.3 Contest 3: Engineering
2.4 Contest 4: Communications
2.5 Contest 5: Innovation
2.6 Contest 6: Water
2.7 Contest 7: Health and Comfort
2.8 Contest 8: Appliances
2.9 Contest 9: Home Life
2.10 Contest 10: Energy Contest
3 Competitors
3.1 2017
3.2 2015
3.3 2013
3.4 2011
3.5 2009
3.6 2007
3.7 2005
3.8 2002
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
History[edit]
The Solar Decathlon 2011 was held in the National Malls West Potomac Park in Washington D.C.
The inaugural Solar Decathlon was open to the public between September 19 and October 6, 2002. Fourteen teams from across the United States, including Puerto Rico, presented their projects on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. The University of Colorado was awarded first place. At the second Solar Decathlon, likewise held on the National Mall on October 616, 2005, eighteen teams from the United States, Canada, and Spain participated; the University of Colorado successfully defended its championship.
The third Solar Decathlon took place on the National Mall on October 1220, 2007. Twenty teams from the United States, Canada, Spain, and Germany competed, and Technische Universitt Darmstadt (Team Germany) was named the overall champion. The fourth Solar Decathlon was held on the National Mall on October 818, 2009, and included teams from the United States, Canada, Germany, and Spain; Team Germany was named the winner for a second time.
The fifth Solar Decathlon took place between September 23 and October 2, 2011, with nineteen participating teams representing the United States, China, New Zealand, Belgium, and Canada. The event was held in Washington D.C.'s West Potomac Park, near the Potomac River, the Tidal Basin and the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial, along a road between the Lincoln and Jefferson Memorials.[6] The University of Maryland was the overall competition winner.[7] The sixth Solar Decathlon took place on October 313, 2013, in Orange County Great Park in Irvine, California  it was the first Solar Decathlon to take place outside Washington D.C., and was won by Vienna University of Technology (Team Austria).[8][9] The seventh Solar Decathlon was held October 8  18, 2015, also at the Orange County Great Park. Stevens Institute of Technology was the overall winner. This was their third Solar Decathlon competition.
Awards[edit]
In 2010, the National Building Museum awarded the Solar Decathlon an Honor Award for its emphasis on "renewable energy, energy-efficient, and environmentally responsible systems" and its role in "educating a new generation of built-environment professionals".[10]
Scope of contests[edit]
Like the Olympic decathlon, the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon consists of 10 contests. The contests evaluate cost-effective design; innovation balanced with market potential; water and energy efficiency; energy production and time-of-use energy; and communications strategies. Each Solar Decathlon contest is worth a maximum of 100 points, for a potential competition total of 1,000 points. Teams earn points through task completion, performance monitoring, and jury evaluation.
Contest 1: Architecture[edit]
For the Architecture Contest of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017, teams are required to design and build attractive, high-performance houses that integrate solar and energy efficiency technologies seamlessly into the design.
Contest 2: Market Potential[edit]
For the Market Potential Contest of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017, each team is required to design a primary residence for year-round occupancy for a specific target client of its choosing..
Contest 3: Engineering[edit]
Solar Decathlon houses are marvels of engineering. For the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017, a jury of engineers will evaluate the engineering design and implementation of each team's house based on the following criteria: Approach, Design, Efficiency, Performance and Documentation.
Contest 4: Communications[edit]
The U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017 teams must develop and implement communications strategies to engage their local communities, provide free tours to visitors during the event in Denver, and make an impact across the world through their digital presence and media outreach.
Contest 5: Innovation[edit]
New for the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017, the Innovation Contest encourages teams to take a thoughtful approach to innovation, rather than being limited solely to off-the-shelf solutions.
Other contests, such as Market Potential, provide further checks and balances to ensure innovative ideas are implemented within market realities.
Contest 6: Water[edit]
Always ahead of their time, past Solar Decathlon teams have consistently integrated water use and reuse strategies into their designs, even though no points were awarded for this effort. Now, the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017 is rewarding smart water solutions for the first time.
This new contest is important not only because water is a precious resource, but also because water and energy are inextricably linkedit takes water to make the energy we use, and it takes energy to treat and deliver the clean water we require.
Contest 7: Health and Comfort[edit]
New for 2017, the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon Health and Comfort Contest combines new contest components with those from previous Solar Decathlon competitions. Teams are challenged to build a house that minimizes the flow of cooled air in summer or heated air in winter to the outdoors, operate heating and cooling systems that keep temperature and humidity steady, all while maintaining healthy indoor air quality.
Contest 8: Appliances[edit]
The U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017 Appliances Contest is designed to mimic the appliance use of an average U.S. home. Teams earn points for operating their refrigerator and freezer, washing and drying laundry, simulating cooking tasks and hot showers.
Contest 9: Home Life[edit]
The Home Life Contest in the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017 demonstrates whether or not a house is capable of being a home. Teams are required to engage in a variety of activities just like real homeowners. They share meals with friends and neighbors, watch television, use their computers, and host games nights. They even commute in an electric vehicle charged from the house's solar electric system.
Contest 10: Energy Contest[edit]
The Energy Contest of the U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2017 evaluates each team's energy production and a theoretical value to a utility of the energy they both contribute to and take from the Solar Decathlon electricity grid.
For energy production, teams receive full points for producing at least as much energy as its house needs, thus achieving a net energy consumption of zero during the competition.
The energy value component of the Energy Contest is designed to mimic the arrangement a consumer with a solar-powered house may have with a utility, including a net-metering agreement and time-of-use electricity rates.
Competitors[edit]
2017[edit]
Teams selected for the Solar Decathlon 2017 competition to be held in Denver, CO are:
Georgia Tech: Georgia Institute of Technology (Atlanta, GA)
Las Vegas: University of Nevada, Las Vegas (Las Vegas, NV)
Maryland: University of Maryland (College Park, MD)
Missouri S&T: Missouri University of Science and Technology (Rolla, MO)
Netherlands: HU University of Applied Science Utrecht (Utrecht, Netherlands)
Northwestern: Northwestern University (Evanston, IL)
Swiss Team: cole Polytechnique Fdrale de Lausanne, School of Engineering and Architecture Fribourg, Geneva University of Art and Design, and the University of Fribourg (Lausanne, Switzerland and Fribourg, Switzerland)
Team Alabama: University of Alabama at Birmingham; University of Alabama, Huntsville; and Calhoun Community College (Birmingman, AL, Huntsville, AL and Tanner, AL)
Team Daytona Beach: Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University and Daytona State College (Daytona Beach, FL)
UC Berkeley: University of California at Berkeley (Berkeley, CA)
UC Davis: University of California, Davis (Davis, CA)
Wash U: Washington University (St. Louis, MO)
Washington State: Washington State University (Pullman, WA)
West Virginia: West Virginia University (Morgantown, WV)
2015[edit]
Teams selected for the Solar Decathlon 2015 competition, also held at Orange County Great Park in Irvine, CA.
California Polytechnic State University (San Luis Obispo, CA)
Just as birds use materials from their environment to build a nest, Missouri University of Science and Technology reused common materials to build its U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon 2015 entry.
California State University, Sacramento (Sacramento, CA)
Clemson University (Clemson, SC)
Crowder College (Neosho, MO) and Drury University (Springfield, MO)
Missouri University of Science and Technology (Rolla, MO)
New York City College of Technology (New York, NY)
State University of New York at Alfred College of Technology and Alfred University (Alfred, NY)
Stevens Institute of Technology (Hoboken, NJ)
University of Florida, National University of Singapore, and Santa Fe College
The University of Texas at Austin and Technische Universitaet Muenchen
University at Buffalo, The State University of New York
University of California, Davis
University of California, Irvine; Chapman University; Irvine Valley College and Saddleback College
Vanderbilt University and Middle Tennessee State University
West Virginia University and University of Roma Tor Vergata
Western New England University, Universidad Tecnolgica de Panam, and Universidad Tecnolgica Centroamericana
2013[edit]
AIR House of Czech Technical University team. in 2014 rebuilt in Prague as the Information Centre of the CTU
Teams selected for the Solar Decathlon 2013 competition, the first one to be held outside Washington, DC,[11] were:[12]
Arizona State University and The University of New Mexico (Tempe, Arizona, and Albuquerque, New Mexico)[13]
Czech Technical University (Prague, Czech Republic)[14]
Hampton University and Old Dominion University (Hampton and Norfolk, Virginia)[15]
Middlebury College (Middlebury, Vermont)[16]
Missouri University of Science and Technology (Rolla, Missouri)[17]
Norwich University (Northfield, Vermont)[18]
Queen's University, Carleton University, and Algonquin College (Kingston and Ottawa, Ontario, Canada)[19]
Santa Clara University (Santa Clara, California)[20]
Southern California Institute of Architecture and California Institute of Technology (Los Angeles, California)[21]
Stanford University (Palo Alto, California)[22]
Stevens Institute of Technology (Hoboken, New Jersey)[23]
The Catholic University of America, George Washington University, and American University (Washington, DC)[24]
The University of North Carolina at Charlotte (Charlotte, North Carolina)[25]
The University of Texas at El Paso and El Paso Community College (El Paso, Texas)[26]
University of Calgary (Calgary, Alberta, Canada)[27]
University of Louisville, Ball State University and University of Kentucky (Louisville, Kentucky; Muncie, Indiana; and Lexington, Kentucky)[28]
University of Nevada Las Vegas (Las Vegas, Nevada)[29]
University of Southern California (Los Angeles, California)[30]
Vienna University of Technology (Vienna, Austria)[31] winner 2013
West Virginia University (Morgantown, West Virginia)[32]
2011[edit]
Teams selected for the Solar Decathlon 2011 competition were:
Appalachian State University (team page)
Florida International University (team page)
Middlebury College (team page )
New Zealand: Victoria University of Wellington (team page)
The Ohio State University (team page)
Parsons The New School for Design, Milano The New School for Management and Urban Policy, and Stevens Institute of Technology (team page)
Purdue University (team page)
The Southern California Institute of Architecture and California Institute of Technology (team page)
Team Belgium: Ghent University (team page)
Team Canada: University of Calgary (team page)
Team China: Tongji University (team page)
Team Florida: Florida State University, the University of Central Florida, the University of Florida, and the University of South Florida (team page)
Team Massachusetts: Massachusetts College of Art and Design and the University of Massachusetts Lowell (team page)
Team New Jersey: Rutgers - The State University of New Jersey and New Jersey Institute of Technology (team page)
Team New York: The City College of New York (team page)
Tidewater Virginia: Old Dominion University and Hampton University (team page)
University of Hawaii (team page)*On June 1, 2011, the U.S. Department of Energy received formal notification from the *University of Hawaii of its withdrawal from Solar Decathlon 2011.
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (team page)
University of Maryland (team page) winner 2011
The University of Tennessee (team page)
2009[edit]
The competing teams in Solar Decathlon 2009 were:[33][34]
Cornell University (team page)
Iowa State University (team page)
Penn State (team page)
Rice University (team page)
Team Alberta: University of Calgary, SAIT Polytechnic, Alberta College of Art and Design, and Mount Royal College (team page)
Team Boston: Boston Architectural College and Tufts University (team page)
Team California: Santa Clara University and California College of the Arts (team page)
Team Germany: Technische Universitt Darmstadt (team page) winner 2009
Team Missouri: Missouri University of Science and Technology and University of Missouri (team page)
Team Ontario/BC: University of Waterloo, Ryerson University, and Simon Fraser University (team page)
Team Spain: Universidad Politcnica de Madrid (team page)
The Ohio State University (team page)
The University of Arizona (team page)
Universidad de Puerto Rico (team page)
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (team page)
University of Kentucky (team page)
University of Louisiana at Lafayette (team page)
University of Minnesota (team page)
University of WisconsinMilwaukee (team page)
Virginia Tech (team page)
2007[edit]
Georgia Tech's entry to Solar Decathlon 2007, located on Tech campus.
Team Montral: cole de Technologie Suprieure, Universit de Montral, and McGill University
The 20 competing teams in Solar Decathlon 2007 were:
Carnegie Mellon University (team page)
Cornell University (team page)
Georgia Institute of Technology (team page)
Kansas Project Solar House: Kansas State University and University of Kansas (team page)
Lawrence Technological University (team page)
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (team page)
New York Institute of Technology (team page)
Penn State University (team page)
Santa Clara University (team page)
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (team page)
Team Montral: cole de Technologie Suprieure, Universit de Montral, and McGill University (team page)
Technische Universitt Darmstadt (team page) winner 2007
Texas A&M University (team page)
Universidad Politcnica de Madrid (team page)
Universidad de Puerto Rico (team page)
University of Cincinnati (team page)
University of Colorado at Boulder (team page)
University of Maryland (team page)
University of Missouri-Rolla (now Missouri S&T) (team page)
University of Texas at Austin (team page)
2005[edit]
Pittsburgh Synergy Solar Decathlon House at Carnegie Mellon University.
The 18 competing universities in Solar Decathlon 2005 were:
California Polytechnic State University
Canadian Solar Decathlon: Concordia University and Universit de Montral
Cornell University (team page)
Crowder College
Florida International University
New York Institute of Technology (team page)
Pittsburgh Synergy: Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh, and the Art Institute of Pittsburgh (team page)
Rhode Island School of Design
Universidad de Puerto Rico
Universidad Politcnica de Madrid (team page)
University of Colorado, Denver and Boulder winner 2005
University of Maryland (team page)
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth
University of Michigan
University of MissouriRolla (now Missouri S&T) and Rolla Technical Institute (team page)
University of Texas at Austin (UT SolarD team page)
Virginia Tech (team page)
Washington State University
2002[edit]
The 14 competing teams in Solar Decathlon 2002 were:
Auburn University
Carnegie Mellon
Crowder College
Texas A&M University
Tuskegee University
University of Colorado at Boulder winner 2002
University of Delaware
University of Maryland
University of MissouriRolla (now Missouri S&T) and Rolla Technical Institute (team page)
University of North Carolina at Charlotte
Universidad de Puerto Rico
University of Texas at Austin
University of Virginia (team page)
Virginia Tech
See also[edit]
Energy conservation
Green building
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, a U.S. certification for sustainable architecture
Low-energy house
Sustainable architecture
References[edit]
^ "History". Solar Decathlon. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "FAQs". Solar Decathlon. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "Solar Decathlon Europe". Solar Decathlon. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "Solar Decathlon China Coming in 2013". Solar Decathlon. January 20, 2011. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "TEAM UOW'S ILAWARRA FLAME HOUSE - WINNER OF THE SOLAR DECATHLON CHINA 2013". University of Wollongong. September 25, 2013. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ http://www.solardecathlon.gov/past/2011/pdfs/2011_brochure.pdf
^ "University of Maryland Wins Solar Decathlon 2011!". Solar Decathlon. October 1, 2011. Retrieved October 5, 2011.
^ "About Solar Decathlon". U.S. Department of Energy Solar Decathlon. National Renewable Energy Laboratory. Archived from the original on January 27, 2013. Retrieved January 27, 2013.
^ "Highlights from Solar Decathlon 2013". Solar Decathlon. February 4, 2014. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "2010 Honor Award: A Salute to Civic Innovators". National Building Museum. 2010. Retrieved March 26, 2015.
^ "Solar Decathlon 2013: New Teams! New Location!". press release. U.S. Department of Energy. 2012-01-26.
^ "DOE Announces Solar Decathlon 2013 Teams and Location".
^ "AZ State/New Mexico".
^ "AIR House".
^ "Tidewater Virginia".
^ "Middlebury College".
^ "Solar House Team, Missouri S&T".
^ "Norwich forges its own path at Solar Decathlon".
^ "Team Ontario".
^ "Radiant House".
^ "SCICal2013.com Home".
^ "Team Stanford".
^ "EcoHabit, Stevens Solar Decathlon 2013".
^ "Harvest - Team Capitol DC".
^ "Urban Eden".
^ "UTEP / College of Engineering".
^ "Team Alberta".
^ "The Phoenix House".
^ "University of Nevada Las Vegas".
^ "fluxHome".
^ "LISI | HOUSE OF THE SOLAR DECATHLON TEAM AUSTRIA".
^ "West Virginia University Solar Decathlon Team".
^ "Energy Department Selects Student Teams to Compete in 2009 Solar Decathlon". press release. U.S. Department of Energy. 2008-01-24.
^ "2009 Solar Decathlon contact list".
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Solar Decathlon.
Solar Decathlon official website
Solar Decathlon Europe official website
Solar Decathlon China official website
Solar Decathlon 2009 photo gallery via DC Photo Tour
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:2701674-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161111135853 and revision id 748935932
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Solar_Decathlon&oldid=748935932"
Categories: Science competitionsSolar architecture2002 establishments in the United StatesHidden categories: Use mdy dates from March 2015Commons category with page title same as on Wikidata