Solarlamp
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (November 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
A solar lamp in Rizal Park, Philippines
A garden solar lamp
Magnifying glass
A solar lamp also known as solar light or solar lantern, is a lighting system composed of an LED lamp, solar panels, battery, charge controller and there may also be an inverter. The lamp operates on electricity from batteries, charged through the use of solar photovoltaic panel.
Solar-powered household lighting can replace other light sources like candles or kerosene lamps. Solar lamps use renewable energy with infinity supply which is cheaper than standard lamps. In addition, solar lamps reduce health risk as kerosene lamps have a bad impact on human health. However, solar lamps may have higher initial cost, are weather dependent.
Solar lamps for use in rural situations often have the capability of providing a supply of electricity for other devices, such as for charging cell phones. American investors have been working towards developing a $10 / unit solar lantern for replacement of kerosene lamps.[1]
Contents
1 History
2 Components
2.1 Solar cells/Solar panels
2.2 Battery
2.3 Charge Controller
2.4 Inverter
3 Working principles
4 Benefits
5 Use
5.1 Solar street light
5.2 Rural
6 See also
7 References
History[edit]
In the past solar panels used large crystals mainly made out of silicon which produced electricity when it was exposed to light. When electrons in silicon are exposed to light, they start to vibrate from their fixed positions following thermodynamics rules. Furthermore, it produces heat from the vibration and the movement. Through this, silicon turns a large portion of light energy into electricity. However, manufactures found silicon too expensive to make and to put in as a component of solar lamps.[2]
Photoelectric effect used in solar cells was first noted by Edmond Becquerel, a French physicist, in 1839. Albert Einstein won a Nobel prize in 1922 by exploring the nature of light and the photovoltaic technology based on photoelectric effect. The first photovoltaic module was built in 1954 by Bell Laboratories.[3][4]
On the other hand, nowadays solar panels are made out of smaller and cheaper crystals. For example, copper, indium, gallium and selenide. These new crystals can be used to form thin flexible films. However these cheaper crystals are less efficient at turning light energy into electricity. Therefore, it is an ongoing project to find a cheaper, efficient silicon substitute material that can be easily mass-produced and convert light into electricity very easily.[2]
Components[edit]
The whole structure of solar lamp is shown in Figure 2.
Figure 1 [5]
Solar cells/Solar panels[edit]
Solar panels are made out of crystals that are made out of covalent bonds between electrons on the outer shell of silicon atoms. Silicon is a semiconductor which is neither metals that conducts electricity nor insulators that do not conduct electricity. Semiconductors normally do not conduct electricity but under certain circumstances they do in this example with exposition to light.[6]
A solar cell has two different layers of silicon. The lower layer has less electrons and hence has a slight positive charge due to the negative charge nature of electrons. In addition, the upper layer has more electrons and has slightly negative charge.
A barrier is created between these two layers however when the stream of light particles called photons enter, they give up their energy to the atoms in the silicon. It promotes one electron from a covalent bond to a next energy level from upper layer to the lower layer.[2] This promotion of an electron allows freer movement within the crystal which produces a current. More light shines through, more electrons move around hence more current flows between. This process is called photovoltaic and photoelectric effect.[6] Photovoltaic systems literally means combination of light and voltage and they use photovoltaic cells to directly convert sunlight into electricity.[7]
Solar panels are made out of layers of different materials, as you can see in Figure 2, in order of glass, encapsulate, crystalline cells, encapsulate, back sheet, junction box and lastly frame. The encapsulate keeps out moisture and contaminants which could cause problems.[8]
Figure 2 [9]
Battery[edit]
A battery is usually housed within a metal or plastic case. Inside the case are electrodes including cathodes and anodes where chemical reactions occur. A separator also exists between cathode and anode which stops the electrodes reacting together at the same time as allowing electrical charge to flow freely between the two. Lastly, the collector conducts a charge from the battery to outside.[10]
Batteries inside solar lamps usually use gel electrolyte technology with high performance in deep discharging, in order to enable use in extreme ranges of temperature.[11] It may also use lead-acid, nickel metal hydride, nickel cadmium, or lithium.
This part of the lamp saves up energy from the solar panel and provides power when needed at night when there is no light energy available.
In general, the efficiency of photovoltaic energy conversion is limited for physical reasons. Around 24% of solar radiation of a long wavelength is not absorbed. 33% is heat lost to surroundings, and further losses are of approximately 15-20%. Only 23% is absorbed which means a battery is a crucial part of solar lamp.[12]
Charge Controller[edit]
This section controls the entire working systems to protect battery charge. It ensures, under any circumstances including extreme weather conditions with large temperature difference, the battery does not overcharge or over discharge and damage the battery even further.[13]
This section also includes additional parts such as light controller, time controller, sound, temperature compensation, lighting protection, reverse polarity protection and AC transfer switches which ensure sensitive back-up loads work normally when outage occurs.[11]
Inverter[edit]
Solar energy is produced in DC therefore DC-AC inverter is required to enable people to use AC power of either 220V AC or 110V AC.
Working principles[edit]
Figure 3 [14]
LED lights are used due to their high luminous efficiency and long life. Under the control of a DC charge controller, non-contact control automatically turns on the light at dark and switches off at daytime. It sometimes also combines with time controllers to set curtain time for it to automatically switch light on and off.[13]
As shown in Figure 3, the chip includes microchip(R), B-, B+, S- and S+. S+ and S- are both connected to solar panels with wire, one of which has plus charge and the other minus charge. B- and B+ are attached to two batteries in this case. The light will be shown through the LED light when all of these are connected.
Benefits[edit]
Solar lamps can be easier for customers to install and maintain as they do not require an electricity cable. Solar lamps can benefit owners with reduced maintenance cost and costs of electricity bills. Solar lamps can also be used in areas where there is no electrical grid or remote areas that lack a reliable electricity supply.[15]There are many stories of people with lung disease, eye deterioration, burns and sometimes even death simply because they do not have a healthy alternative to light at night. Women have felt unsafe walking to the toilet outside after dark. Babies are being delivered by midwives using only a candle, and students cannot study when the sun goes down for lack of light leading to increased illiteracy and perpetual poverty. These are the realities for over 1 billion people around the globe. Lack of lighting equates to continued poverty felt around the world.[16]
Solar energy output is limited by weather and can be less effective if it is cloudy, wet, or winter.[17]
Households switching to solar lamps from kerosene lamps also gain from health risk associated with kerosene emissions. Kerosene often has negative impacts on human lungs.[18]
The use of solar energy minimizes the creation pollution indoors, where kerosene have been linked to cases of health issues. However, photovoltaic panels are made out of silicon and other toxic metals including lead that can be difficult to dispose of.[19]
The use of solar lights improves education for students who live in households without electricity. When the nonprofit Unite-To-Light donated solar-lamps to schools a remote region of Kwa Zulu Natal in South Africa test scores and pass rates improved by over 30%. The light gives students added time to study after dark. [20]
Use[edit]
Solar street light[edit]
Main article: Solar street light
These lights provide a convenient and cost-effective way to light streets at night without the need of AC electrical grids for pedestrians and drivers. They may have individual panels for each lamp of a system, or may have a large central solar panel and battery bank to power multiple lamps.
Solar LED lantern
Rural[edit]
In rural India, solar lamps, commonly called solar lanterns, using either LEDs or CFLs, are being used to replace kerosene lamps. Especially in areas where electricity is otherwise difficult to access, solar lamps are very useful and it will also improve life in rural areas.[21]
See also[edit]
Renewable energy portal
Energy portal
Light tube
Liter of Light project
Solar device
Solar Street Lighting
Solar thermal collector#Evacuated tube collectors
References[edit]
^ "$10 solar-powered lamp to help the poor". Telegraph.co.uk. Retrieved 2015-12-16.
^ a b c "How does solar power work?". www.scientificamerican.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ "Champions of photovoltaics technology". www.renewableenergyworld.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ "How do Photovoltaics Work? - NASA Science". science.nasa.gov. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ "Solar power use - Connect-Green". www.connect-green.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ a b "How do solar cells work? - Explain that Stuff". www.explainthatstuff.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ "Photovoltaic Systems". Photovoltaic Systems. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ Dow Corning (2009). "The Science of Solar: Solar Energy - The Basics" (PDF). Solar Solutions.
^ "The Solar Panel". swcphysics30. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ "How Batteries Work". HowStuffWorks. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ a b "Solar  Philips Lighting". www.lighting.philips.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ Goetzberger, Adolf (1998). Crystalline silicon solar cells. Germany: John Wiley&Sons. p.72. ISBN0-471-97144-8.
^ a b "Solar Street Light,LED Street Light -- Anern Industry Group". www.anern.com. Retrieved 2015-10-31.
^ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8earltsP35w, retrieved 2015-11-01 Missing or empty |title= (help)
^ "Advantages and Disadvantages of Solar Energy | GreenMatch.co.uk". www.greenmatch.co.uk. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ https://esperanzamarket.com/blogs/news/93744963-changemakers-spotlight-unite-to-light
^ "Solar Power Advantages and Disadvantages". www.sepco-solarlighting.com. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ "Solar-powered lamp and charger". British Museum. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ "Disadvantages Of Solar Energy - Conserve Energy Future". Conserve-Energy-Future. Retrieved 2015-11-01.
^ Unite To Light https://esperanzamarket.com/blogs/news/93744963-changemakers-spotlight-unite-to-light
^ nannammmaims-to-displace-kerosene-lamps.html Cheapest Solar Lantern Aims to Displace Kerosene Lamps
v
t
e
Photovoltaics
Concepts
Technology
Photovoltaics
Photoelectric effect
Solar insolation
Solar constant
Solar cell efficiency
Nominal power (Watt-peak)
Thin film solar cell
Multijunction photovoltaic cell
Third generation photovoltaic cell
Solar cell research
Quantum efficiency of a solar cell
Thermophotovoltaic
Thermodynamic efficiency limit
Sun-free photovoltaics
Polarizing organic photovoltaics
Materials
List of semiconductor materials
Crystalline silicon (c-Si)
Polycrystalline silicon (multi-Si)
Monocrystalline silicon (mono-Si)
Cadmium telluride
Copper indium gallium selenide
Amorphous silicon (a-Si)
History
Growth of photovoltaics
Timeline of solar cells
Photovoltaic system
Solar cells
Polymer solar cell
Nanocrystal solar cell
Organic solar cell
Quantum dot solar cell
Hybrid solar cell
Plasmonic solar cell
Carbon nanotubes in photovoltaics
Dye-sensitized solar cell
Cadmium telluride photovoltaics
Copper indium gallium selenide solar cells
Printed solar panel
Perovskite solar cell
System components
Solar panel
Balance of system
Solar charge controller
Solar inverter
Solar micro-inverter
Solar cable
Photovoltaic mounting system
Maximum power point tracker
Solar tracker
Solar shingles
Solar mirror
System concepts
Perturb and observe method
Incremental conductance method
Constant voltage method
Fill factor
Concentrated photovoltaics
Photovoltaic thermal hybrid solar collector
Space-based solar power
Applications
Appliances
Solar-powered refrigerator
Solar air conditioning
Solar lamp
Solar charger
Solar backpack
Solar tree
Solar-powered pump
Solar-powered watch
Solar Tuki
Photovoltaic keyboard
Solar road stud
Solar cell phone charger
Solar notebook
Solar-powered calculator
Solar-powered fountain
Solar-powered radio
Solar-powered flashlight
Solar-powered fan
Solar street light
Solar traffic light
Land transport
Solar vehicle
Solar car
Solar roadway
Solar golf cart
The Quiet Achiever
Sunmobile
Air transport
Electric aircraft
Mauro Solar Riser
Solar panels on spacecraft
Solar-Powered Aircraft Developments Solar One
Gossamer Penguin
Qinetiq Zephyr
Solar Challenger
Water transport
Solar boat
Solar vehicle racing
Solar car racing
List of solar car teams
Solar challenges
World Solar Challenge
American Solar Challenge
Formula Sun Grand Prix
Solar Cup
Frisian Solar Challenge
Solar Splash
South African Solar Challenge
Tour de Sol
Hunt-Winston School Solar Car Challenge
Victorian Model Solar Vehicle Challenge
Generation systems
PV power station
Grid-connected photovoltaic power system
List of photovoltaic power stations
Individual projects
Alamosa photovoltaic power plant
Beneixama photovoltaic power plant
Blythe Photovoltaic Power Plant
Copper Mountain Solar Facility
Darro Solar Park
Erlasee Solar Park
Golmud Solar Park
Gottelborn Solar Park
Guadarranque solar power plant
Kthen Solar Park
Moura Photovoltaic Power Station
Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park
Pocking Solar Park
Puertollano Photovoltaic Park
Topaz Solar Farm
Wyandot Solar Facility
Building-mounted
Rooftop photovoltaic power station
Building-integrated photovoltaics
Solar Ark
Solar Umbrella house
Strasskirchen Solar Park
By country
Australia
Belgium
Bulgaria
Canada
Chile
China
Czech Republic
France
Germany
Greece
India
Italy
Japan
Netherlands
Romania
South Africa
Spain
Switzerland
Thailand
United Kingdom
USA
PV companies
By country
List of countries by photovoltaics production
Individual producers
First Solar
Hanwha Solarone
JA Solar
Motech Solar
REC
Q-Cells
Sharp
Solar Frontier
Solyndra
Sungen Solar
Sunpower
Suntech
Trina Solar
Yingli Solar
Category
Commons
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1287
Cached time: 20161120090604
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.240 seconds
Real time usage: 0.296 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1070/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 94848/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 13/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 6/40
Expensive parser function count: 1/500
Lua time usage: 0.112/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.43 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
224.274
1 - -total
36.66%
82.210
15 - Template:Cite_web
17.92%
40.200
1 - Template:Refimprove
15.34%
34.407
6 - Template:Navbox
12.48%
27.997
1 - Template:Photovoltaics
11.77%
26.400
1 - Template:Ambox
4.13%
9.261
1 - Template:Citation
3.72%
8.343
1 - Template:Portal
3.07%
6.885
1 - Template:Main
2.70%
6.058
2 - Template:Icon
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:17669405-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120090604 and revision id 725469264
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Solar_lamp&oldid=725469264"
Categories: Applications of photovoltaicsElectrical systemsEnergy-saving lightingLight fixturesLight-emitting diodesTypes of lampSolar-powered devicesHidden categories: Pages with citations lacking titlesPages with citations having bare URLsArticles needing additional references from November 2013All articles needing additional references