Sustainableprocurement
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
The examples and perspective in this article may not represent a worldwide view of the subject. You may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as appropriate. (January 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Procurement is the process of finding, acquiring, buying goods, services or works from an external source, often via a tendering or competitive bidding process. The process is used to ensure the buyer receives goods, services or works the best possible price, when aspects such as quality, quantity, time, and location are compared.[1] Procurement is considered sustainable when organizations broadens this framework by meeting their needs for goods, services, works, and utilities in a way that achieves value for money and promotes positive outcomes not only for the organization itself but for the economy, environment, and society. This framework is also known as the triple bottom line.
Sustainable procuremennt is a spending and investment process typically associated with public policy, although it is equally applicable to the private sector. Organizations practicing sustainable procurement meet their needs for goods, services, utilities and works not on a private costbenefit analysis, but with a view to maximizing net benefits for themselves and the wider world. In doing so they must incorporate extrinsic cost considerations into decisions alongside the conventional procurement criteria of price and quality, although in practice the sustainable impacts of a potential supplier's approach are often assessed as a form of quality consideration. These considerations are typically divided thus: environmental, economic and social.
Sustainable procurement involves a higher degree of collaboration and engagement between all parties in a supply chain. Many businesses have adopted a broad interpretation of sustainable procurement and have developed tools and techniques to support this engagement and collaboration.
Contents
1 Triple bottom line considerations
1.1 Environmental
1.2 Social
1.3 Economic
2 Sustainable procurement policy and development
2.1 State government
2.1.1 Case studies
2.2 Local government
2.3 Private sector
2.3.1 Fair Trade
3 Approaches
3.1 Product-based
3.2 Supplier-based
4 See also
5 References
6 External links and recommended reading
Triple bottom line considerations[edit]
Procurement  the letting of contracts for goods, works and services on the best possible terms  has historically been based on two criteria, price and quality, with a view to maximizing benefits for the procuring organization. Sustainable procurement broadens this framework to take account of third-party consequences of procurement decisions, forming a "triple baseline" of external concerns which the procuring organization must fulfill.[2]
Environmental[edit]
Environmental concerns are the dominant macro-level justification for sustainable procurement, born out of the growing 21st century consensus that humanity is placing excessive demands on available resources through unsustainable but well-established consumption patterns. these will involve non human factors.
This is a sufficiently influential issue that environment-centric procurement (green procurement) is sometimes seen to stand alone from sustainable procurement. The most straightforward justification for green procurement is as a tool with which to address climate change, but it offers the broader capacity to mitigate over-exploitation of any and all scarce resources.
Examples of green procurement range from the purchase of energy-saving light-bulbs to the commissioning of a new building from renewable sourced timber via organic food being served in a workplace canteen. The ultimate green procurement is the avoidance of the purchase altogether.
In support of Sustainable Development the organization should develop and publish a 'Sustainable Development Procurement Guidelines and Procedures'. When it comes to purchasing products or services, referral to these guidelines would help make the organization become a leader in environmentally responsible purchasing.[3][4]
Social[edit]
Sustainable procurement is also used to address issues of social policy, such as inclusiveness, equality, international labor standards and diversity targets, regeneration and integration.
Examples include addressing the needs  whether employment, care, welfare or other  of groups including ethnic minorities, children, the elderly, those with disabilities, adults lacking basic skills, and immigrant populations.
Economic[edit]
On a macroeconomic level, it can be argued that there are economic benefits in the form of efficiency gains from incorporating whole-life costing into decision-making. [Note: in contrast to most arguments from sustainable procurement proponents, these can be purely private benefits accrued by the procuring organization.]
In addition, the creation of sustainable markets is essential for long-term growth while sustainable development requirements foster innovation. There are also potential global applications: sustainable procurement can favor fair trade or ethical practice, and allow extra investment to channeled towards developing countries.
On a micro economic level, sustainable procurement offers the chance for economic redistribution. Targets might include creation of jobs and wealth in regeneration areas, or assistance for small and/or ethnic minority-owned businesses.
Sustainable procurement policy and development[edit]
State government[edit]
For central governments, sustainable procurement is typically viewed as the application of sustainable development criteria to spending and investment decisions. Given high-profile socioeconomic and environmental concerns such as globalization and climate change, governments are increasingly concerned that our actions meet the needs of the present without compromising the needs of the future.
Public spending, which accounts for an average of 12% of GDP in OECD countries, and up to 30% in developing countries, wields enormous purchasing power.[2] Shifting that spending towards more sustainable goods and services can help drive markets in the direction of innovation and sustainability, thereby enabling the transition to a green economy. Through Sustainable procurement practices, governments can lead by example and deliver key policy objectives. Sustainable procurement allows governments to mitigate key issues such as greenhouse gas emissions, improve resource efficiency, recycling, among others. The key international organizations already increasingly recognize public procurement as a means of changing the unsustainable patterns of consumption and production.
The United Nations, including its many affiliated agencies, recognize their own responsibilities in contributing to more sustainable patterns of development, maintaining a market behavior which is credible, inspirational and exemplary, and proving that UN agencies stand behind the principles they promote.[5] Through the development of procurement criteria that support sustainability principles, requisitioners and procurers can send strong signals to the market in favor of goods and services that promote sustainability. The United Nations agency destined to develop and promote resource efficiency and more sustainable consumption and production processes, including the promotion of sustainable resource management in a life cycle perspective for goods and services in both developed and developing countries, The United Nations Environmental Programme, UNEP, drafted sustainable public procurement implementation guideline to aid in the consideration of society, economy, and the environment in procurement processes[2]
Project set up and governance structure establishment
In the project organization and set up in pilot country of Mauritius, the NFO (Mauritius public procurement office) set up monthly and biweekly newsletters on the purpose of public procurement which was then used as a communication device for later projects, activities, and events, along with other relevant information [6]
Assessment, review, and prioritization
Recommended method of assessing the effectiveness of public procurement plans is conducting interviews with procurers as to assess the degree of training and knowledge. Recognize and understand the obstacles in the implementation of SPP in their respective administration as well as identifying products and services which are considered a priority for the well-functioning of such projects and policies.[6]
Sustainable public procurement policy and action plan
Drafting an SPP plan is necessary for the successful implementation of polices. It creates a clear path and provides a direction on sound basis on which to build coherent and efficient strategies. The SPP Action Plan should contribute to the country's sustainable development in terms of environmental protection, economic development, health, welfare, etc. In the UNEP pilot country of Chile, working to enhance previous e-learning platform for contracting managers from across the country, the UNEP agreement with the sovereign nation was modified replacing two different workshops for roughly 50 people each with the generic term "training" and the new materials for the electronic platform are currently being developed as to provide the entire Chilean public administration easier access.[6]
Implementation
Nations interested in applying the SPP approach in the development of domestic policies and would like to receive funding for the implementation of the various programs must directly apply to the UNEP and follow a particular procedure.[6]
Case studies[edit]
The Marrakech Task Force on Sustainable Public Procurement (MTF or SPP) which was managed by Switzerland from 2006 to May 2011 established an approach for the effective implementation of sustainable procurement. This approach was named the MTF Approach to SPP. Since then, the United Nations Environmental Programme have worked together with the Swiss government to develop a project to implement sustainable procurement worldwide. The project named Capacity Building for Sustainable Public Procurement in Developing countries were piloted in 7 different countries, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Lebanon, Mauritius, Tunisia, and Uruguay and since then, the list of countries adopting this newly designed approach to developing has increase adding even more advanced and industrialized nations to be used as case studies to measure the efficiency and benefits of the implementation of sustainable public procurement. In Brazil, the project involved recycled paper, in Costa Rica, the management services was redesigned, toner cartridges for laser printers was the main objective in France, in Hong Kong and China the nations aimed to improve traffic with LED traffic lights retrofit, organic food for school children in Italy, sustainable construction in England, consultancy and temporary staff services was renovated in Scotland, and in the United States, there was a push for the sustainable transportation of waste.[7]
The eight case studies reveal a diversity of environmental impacts at various stages of the products life cycle. The purchase of remanufactured ink cartridges by the French Ministry of Education has led to a decrease in the amount of waste generated at the manufacturing stage. The construction or services case studies (Yorkshire and Humber Region, UK, and Oregon, USA) demonstrate significant impacts related to the reduction of CO2 emissions, of waste production, and of water consumption. The Ferrara study (Italy) and the recycled paper case (So Paulo, Brazil) show positive environmental.[7]
Although the social component of sustainable development has often been considered as the most neglected one, the eight case studies show a strong commitment from public purchasers to tackle social issues. Employment and social inclusiveness issues are considered essential by the public entities who promote these priorities through their procurement processes. Some of the social impacts are directly targeted by tenders, such as the participation of companies employing disabled persons in the French case or the fight against illiteracy in Scotland. Other impacts are the results of the specific purchase, as in the State of So Paulo case (notebooks using recycled paper) which demonstrates a clear positive impact for waste pickers. The analysis of the case studies illustrates the diversity and strength of the recorded sustainable development impacts. Public purchasers can be clearly seen as key potential actors of society, able to impact a wide range of sustainable development fields.[7]
The UK in 2005 pledged to be a performance-leader in sustainable procurement by 2009 and commissioned the business-led Sustainable Procurement Task Force to formulate appropriate strategy.[8] Broad-based procurement strategies are prominent across the EU[9] while it is an increasingly influential concern elsewhere, most notably Canada.[10] The US federal government requires certain green procurement practices in its buildings and supports the wide and inclusive use of them. The General Services Administration, an independent establishment and government corporation, is responsible for promoting green procurement and provides federal agencies with selling and purchasing guidelines and suggestions. Green procurement is primarily done by federal contracting personnel and program managers  but it is not restricted to such professionals.[11]
Local government[edit]
At market-level, sustainable procurement is typically instrumental: authorities seek to address policy through procurement.[12]
Government departments and local bodies can use procurement to address certain chosen agendas in buying solutions that will contribute to community or environmental goals, or to diversity or equality targets.
To help local governments improve sustainability and reduce environmental impacts the California Sustainability Alliance, has developed a Green Procurement Toolkit.[13] Green procurement can help local governments save money, create local green jobs and improve their environmental sustainability.
Under sustainable procurement criteria any procuring organization must therefore take a broad approach to sustainability, reflecting localized economic, environmental and social needs as well as cross-cutting sustainable development strategies such as Life Cycle Assessment.[14]
ICLEI is a membership organization of local governments who recognize the power of Public Sustainable Procurement to achieve environmental, social and economic benefits. It encourages Public Procurement of Innovation as a means for achieving sustainability. Among its various activities, it offers a Sustainable Procurement Resource Center and a Procurement of Innovation Platform which can be used by procurers or by anyone interested in these topics.
On December 8, 2006 the Greater London Authority became the first public-sector body to publish a sustainable procurement policy,[15] promising to award a "distinct competitive advantage" to those companies which demonstrated a commitment to sustainable procurement concerns.[16] The policy reflected the Mayor's enthusiasm for public procurement as a tool for fostering social inclusion, equality and environmental objectives.
The GLA also stated that their policy was "very much as a model for broader government procurement" but this expectation was not fulfilled in the UK Government's Sustainable Procurement Action Plan, published on March 5, 2007.[17] The Action Plan, which incorporated answers to the Sustainable Procurement Task Force, was explicitly environment-oriented in approach (Ch 4.3) with wider social issues scarcely addressed.
This was perhaps surprising, as was press disinterest in the publication. Despite its acknowledged importance among senior politicians and business leaders, publication of the Action Plan received only one national newspaper report, and that was markedly flippant in tone.[18]
Private sector[edit]
Sustainable procurement outside of the United Nations is happening everywhere, in the international community, in states and local authorities, in the private sector and in the civil society. Sustainable procurement is as applicable to the private sector as the public sector, and certainly its proponents aspire to seeing its application across all areas of the economy due to a vast amount of material available on the internet for organizations and companies wishing to improve their sustainability performance. Influencing procurement practice within a private-sector firm is not straightforward for governments, meaning that the companies themselves often have to be self-motivated to embrace sustainability. It becomes a social responsibility for both businesses and workers to promote sustainable procurement in the workplace.
The UK's Sustainable Procurement National Action Plan argues that it is "something the best of the private sector is already doing  whether through enlightened leadership or shareholder pressure".[19] It also argues that government purchasing power (circa 150bn in the UK alone) can apply sustainable procurement principles to present a persuasive case to those in the private sector resisting sustainable procurement practice.
Fair Trade[edit]
Fair trade and sustainable procurement demands the implementation of responsible practices in relation to workers, environment and society to be followed by suppliers as to promote a chain of sustainability between production and consumption.[20]
Approaches[edit]
While there is no strict definition on how organizations implement sustainable procurement, there are two approaches that can be combined:
Product-based[edit]
This is where an organization examines a products movement along the supply chain and assesses the environmental credentials of themselves and of their suppliers. This path is commonly used when an organization wishes to understand the impact of a product or product range for strategic and marketing purposes. This approach can also provide a vivid picture of supplier processes.
Supplier-based[edit]
An organization may analyze the CSR management systems of a supplier and whether its practices conform with law and with the CSR standards of "buying" organization. Thus, the organization measures the environmental and social risk a supplier may impose upon them. Implemented effectively, this method will show whether a supplier meets the environmental standards of the organization, along with whether suppliers are meeting the requirements of law. In order to assess the CSR Management systems companies can use a variety of tools:
self-assessment questionnaires
on site audits programs managed internally or through 3rd parties.
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Sustainable development
Triple bottom line
Procurement
United Nations Environment Programme
References[edit]
^ "NIGP - The Institute for Public Procurement". www.nigp.org. Retrieved 2016-11-16.
^ a b c resource-efficiency. "UNEP - Resource Efficiency - Society - Procurement". www.unep.org. Retrieved 2016-11-16.
^ Government of Canada  Procurement
^ ISO standard for purchasers
^ "Sustainable Procurement". www.ungm.org. Retrieved 2016-11-16.
^ a b c d Sustainable Public Procurement Implementation Guidelines, Introducing UNEPS Approach (2012). United Nations Environment Programme
^ a b c The Impacts of Sustainable Public Procurement, Eight Case Studies (2012). United Nations Environment Programme.
^ http://www.sustainable-development.gov.uk/government/task-forces/procurement/index.htm The Sustainable Procurement Task Force
^ http://ec.europa.eu/environment/gpp/ European Union Green Public Procurement
^ http://www.tpsgc-pwgsc.gc.ca/ecologisation-greening/index-eng.html Public Works and Government Services Canada  Office of Greening Government Operations
^ https://sftool.gov/greenprocurement/about
^ http://www.ogc.gov.uk/documents/Efficiency_Sustainable_Procurement_Statement.pdf OGC Statement on Efficiency and Sustainable Procurement
^ California Sustainability Alliance, Green Procurement Toolkit, Received October 28, 2010
^ https://sftool.gov/plan/400/life-cycle-assessment-lca-overview
^ http://www.london.gov.uk/gla/tenders/docs/sustainable-procurement.pdf The GLA Group Sustainable Procurement Policy
^ http://www.ft.com/cms/s/b2a1cdec-8660-11db-86d5-0000779e2340.html Financial Times, December 8, 2006, 'Diversity linked to London contracts'
^ http://www.sustainable-development.gov.uk/publications/pdf/SustainableProcurementActionPlan.pdf UK Government Sustainable Procurement Action Plan
^ http://www.ft.com/cms/s/75cb4c24-cb87-11db-b436-000b5df10621.html Financial Times, March 6, 2007, 'Government seeks green toilet paper'
^ http://www.sustainable-development.gov.uk/publications/procurement-action-plan/documents/full-document.pdf 'Procuring the Future: Sustainable Procurement National Action Plan' by Sustainable Procurement Task Force
^ "Fairness in Trade and Sustainable Procurement | The University of Edinburgh". www.ed.ac.uk. Retrieved 2016-11-18.
External links and recommended reading[edit]
Sustainable Procurement Task Force
Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council
Mayor of London, the London Assembly and the Greater London Authority
ICLEI Europe Sustainable Procurement Department
Serco Institute Resource Centre: Sustainable Procurement publications
European Union Green public procurement (GPP)
Buy Smart  Information about green procurement
Switzerland [1]
British Standard 8903. Principles and framework for procuring sustainably. Guide.
UNEP [2]
Office, F. T. A. (2014, March 28). Public procurement. Retrieved November 14, 2016, from http://www.fairtrade-advocacy.org/fair-trade-and-the-eu/public-procurement/144-fair-trade-and-the-eu/public-procurement
Factors affecting consumer attitude towards purchasing fair trade goods (2014). The Journal of International Trade & Commerce, 10(6), 407424. doi:10.16980/jitc.10.6.201412.407
Cabras, I. (2011). Mapping the spatial patterns of public procurement. International Journal of Public Sector Management, 24(3), 187205. doi:10.1108/09513551111121338
Grandia, J. (2015). The role of change agents in sustainable public procurement projects. Public Money & Management, 35(2), 119126. doi:10.1080/09540962.2015.1007706
PREUSS, L., & WALKER, H. (2011). PSYCHOLOGICAL BARRIERS IN THE ROAD TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT: EVIDENCE FROM PUBLIC SECTOR PROCUREMENT. Public Administration, 89(2), 493521. doi:10.1111/j.1467-9299.2010.01893.x
Palmer, L. (2013, October 24). The power of procurement: Can sustainable purchasing save the world? The Guardian. Retrieved from https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/blog/procurement-professionals-sustainable-supply-chain
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
Authority control
NDL: 00957359
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1234
Cached time: 20161118062937
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.144 seconds
Real time usage: 0.189 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 806/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 40193/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 223/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 2/500
Lua time usage: 0.048/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 3.01 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
137.344
1 - -total
33.61%
46.156
1 - Template:Reflist
23.01%
31.601
4 - Template:Cite_web
18.20%
25.000
1 - Template:Globalize
16.17%
22.203
1 - Template:Ambox
14.19%
19.489
1 - Template:Use_mdy_dates
11.66%
16.015
1 - Template:Authority_control
8.54%
11.730
1 - Template:Sustainability
7.16%
9.840
1 - Template:Navbox
5.44%
7.477
1 - Template:DMCA
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:8436001-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161118062938 and revision id 750187107
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sustainable_procurement&oldid=750187107"
Categories: Government procurementHidden categories: Use mdy dates from September 2015Articles with limited geographic scope from January 2010