Sustainablefishery
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
SeaWiFS map showing the levels of primary production in the world's oceans
A conventional idea of a sustainable fishery is that it is one that is harvested at a sustainable rate, where the fish population does not decline over time because of fishing practices. Sustainability in fisheries combines theoretical disciplines, such as the population dynamics of fisheries, with practical strategies, such as avoiding overfishing through techniques such as individual fishing quotas, curtailing destructive and illegal fishing practices by lobbying for appropriate law and policy, setting up protected areas, restoring collapsed fisheries, incorporating all externalities involved in harvesting marine ecosystems into fishery economics, educating stakeholders and the wider public, and developing independent certification programs.
Some primary concerns around sustainability are that heavy fishing pressures, such as overexploitation and growth or recruitment overfishing, will result in the loss of significant potential yield; that stock structure will erode to the point where it loses diversity and resilience to environmental fluctuations; that ecosystems and their economic infrastructures will cycle between collapse and recovery; with each cycle less productive than its predecessor; and that changes will occur in the trophic balance (fishing down marine food webs).[1]
Contents
1 Overview
2 History
2.1 Traditional management of fisheries
3 Defining sustainability
3.1 Social sustainability
4 Reconciling fisheries with conservation
5 Obstacles
5.1 Overfishing
5.2 Habitat modification
5.3 Changing the ecosystem balance
5.4 Climate change
5.5 Ocean pollution
5.6 Diseases and toxins
5.7 Irrigation
6 Remediation
6.1 Fisheries management
6.2 Ecosystem based fisheries
6.3 Marine protected areas
6.4 Fish farming
6.5 Laws and treaties
6.6 Awareness campaigns
7 Data issues
7.1 Data quality
7.2 Unreported fishing
7.3 Shifting baselines
8 Looting the seas
9 See also
10 Notes
11 References
Overview[edit]

Sustainable management of fisheries cannot be achieved without an acceptance that the long-term goals of fisheries management are the same as those of environmental conservation

Daniel Pauly and Dave Preikshot, [2]
Global wild fisheries are believed to have peaked and begun a decline, with valuable habitats, such as estuaries and coral reefs, in critical condition.[3] Current aquaculture or farming of piscivorous fish, such as salmon, does not solve the problem because farmed piscivores are fed products from wild fish, such as forage fish. Salmon farming also has major negative impacts on wild salmon.[4][5] Fish that occupy the higher trophic levels are less efficient sources of food energy.
Fishery ecosystems are an important subset of the wider marine environment. This article documents the views of fisheries scientists and marine conservationists about innovative approaches towards sustainable fisheries.
History[edit]

In the end, we will conserve only what we love; we will love only what we understand; and we will understand only what we are taught

Senegalese conservationist Baba Dioum, [6]
In his 1883 inaugural address to the International Fisheries Exhibition in London, Thomas Huxley asserted that overfishing or "permanent exhaustion" was scientifically impossible, and stated that probably "all the great sea fisheries are inexhaustible".[7] In reality, by 1883 marine fisheries were already collapsing. The United States Fish Commission was established 12 years earlier for the purpose of finding why fisheries in New England were declining. At the time of Huxley's address, the Atlantic halibut fishery had already collapsed (and has never recovered).[8]
Traditional management of fisheries[edit]
Traditionally, fisheries management and the science underpinning it was distorted by its "narrow focus on target populations and the corresponding failure to account for ecosystem effects leading to declines of species abundance and diversity" and by perceiving the fishing industry as "the sole legitimate user, in effect the owner, of marine living resources." Historically, stock assessment scientists usually worked in government laboratories and considered their work to be providing services to the fishing industry. These scientists dismissed conservation issues and distanced themselves from the scientists and the science that raised the issues. This happened even as commercial fish stocks deteriorated, and even though many governments were signatories to binding conservation agreements.[2]
Defining sustainability[edit]
The notion of sustainable development is sometimes regarded as an unattainable, even illogical notion because development inevitably depletes and degrades the environment.[9]
Ray Hilborn, of the University of Washington, distinguishes three ways of defining a sustainable fishery:
Long term constant yield is the idea that undisturbed nature establishes a steady state that changes little over time. Properly done, fishing at up to maximum sustainable yield allows nature to adjust to a new steady state, without compromising future harvests. However, this view is naive, because constancy is not an attribute of marine ecosystems, which dooms this approach. Stock abundance fluctuates naturally, changing the potential yield over short and long term periods.[1]
Preserving intergenerational equity acknowledges natural fluctuations and regards as unsustainable only practices which damage the genetic structure destroy habitat, or deplete stock levels to the point where rebuilding requires more than a single generation. Providing rebuilding takes only one generation, overfishing may be economically foolish, but it is not unsustainable. This definition is widely accepted.[1]
Maintaining a biological, social and economic system considers the health of the human ecosystem as well as the marine ecosystem. A fishery which rotates among multiple species can deplete individual stocks and still be sustainable so long as the ecosystem retains its intrinsic integrity. Such a definition might consider as sustainable fishing practices that lead to the reduction and possible extinction of some species.[1]
Social sustainability[edit]
Fisheries and aquaculture are, directly or indirectly, a source of livelihood for over 500 million people, mostly in developing countries.[10]
Social sustainability can conflict with biodiversity. A fishery is socially sustainable if the fishery ecosystem maintains the ability to deliver products the society can use. Major species shifts within the ecosystem could be acceptable as long as the flow of such products continues.[1] Humans have been operating such regimes for thousands of years, transforming many ecosystems, depleting or driving to extinction many species.[11]

To a great extent, sustainability is like good art, it is hard to describe but we know it when we see it.

Ray Hilborn, [1]
According to Hilborn, the "loss of some species, and indeed transformation of the ecosystem is not incompatible with sustainable harvests."[1] For example, in recent years, barndoor skates have been caught as bycatch in the western Atlantic. Their numbers have severely declined and they will probably go extinct if these catch rates continue.[12] Even if the barndoor skate goes extinct, changing the ecosystem, there could still be sustainable fishing of other commercial species.[1]
Reconciling fisheries with conservation[edit]
Management goals might consider the impact of salmon on bear and river ecosystems
At the Fourth World Fisheries Congress in 2004, Daniel Pauly asked, "How can fisheries science and conservation biology achieve a reconciliation?", then answered his own question, "By accepting each others essentials: that fishing should remain a viable occupation; and that aquatic ecosystems and their biodiversity are allowed to persist."[13]
A relatively new concept is relationship farming. This is a way of operating farms so they restore the food chain in their area. Re-establishing a healthy food chain can result in the farm automatically filtering out impurities from feed water and air, feeding its own food chain, and additionally producing high net yields for harvesting. An example is the large cattle ranch Veta La Palma in southern Spain. Relationship farming was first made popular by Joel Salatin who created a 220 hectare relationship farm featured prominently in Michael Pollan's book The Omnivore's Dilemma (2006) and the documentary films, Food, Inc. and Fresh. The basic concept of relationship farming is to put effort into building a healthy food chain, and then the food chain does the hard work.
Obstacles[edit]
Large areas of the global continental shelf, highlighted in cyan, have had heavy bottom trawls repeatedly dragged over them
Overfishing[edit]
Main article: Overfishing
Overfishing can be sustainable. According to Hilborn, overfishing can be "a misallocation of societies' resources", but it does not necessarily threaten conservation or sustainability".[1]
Overfishing is traditionally defined as harvesting so many fish that the yield is less than it would be if fishing were reduced.[1] For example, Pacific salmon are usually managed by trying to determine how many spawning salmon, called the "escapement", are needed each generation to produce the maximum harvestable surplus. The optimum escapement is that needed to reach that surplus. If the escapement is half the optimum, then normal fishing looks like overfishing. But this is still sustainable fishing, which could continue indefinitely at its reduced stock numbers and yield. There is a wide range of escapement sizes that present no threat that the stock might collapse or that the stock structure might erode.[1]
On the other hand, overfishing can precede severe stock depletion and fishery collapse.[14] Hilborn points out that continuing to exert fishing pressure while production decreases, stock collapses and the fishery fails, is largely "the product of institutional failure."[1]
Today over 70% of fish species are either fully exploited, overexploited, depleted, or recovering from depletion. If overfishing does not decrease, it is predicted that stocks of all species currently commercially fished for will collapse by 2048.[15]
A Hubbert linearization (Hubbert curve) has been applied to the whaling industry, as well as charting the price of caviar, which depends on sturgeon stocks.[16] Another example is North Sea cod. Comparing fisheries and mineral extraction tells us that human pressure on the environment is causing a wide range of resources to go through a Hubbert depletion cycle.[17][18]
Fishing down the food web
Coastal fishing communities in Bangladesh are vulnerable to flooding from sea-level rises.[19]
Island with fringing reef in the Maldives. Coral reefs are dying around the world.[20]
Shrinking of the Aral Sea
Habitat modification[edit]
See also: Environmental effects of fishing and Destructive fishing practices
Nearly all the worlds continental shelves, and large areas of continental slopes, underwater ridges, and seamounts, have had heavy bottom trawls and dredges repeatedly dragged over their surfaces. For fifty years, governments and organizations, such as the Asian Development Bank, have encouraged the fishing industry to develop trawler fleets. Repeated bottom trawling and dredging literally flattens diversity in the benthic habitat, radically changing the associated communities.[21]
Changing the ecosystem balance[edit]
Main article: Fishing down the food web
Since 1950, 90 percent of 25 species of big predator fish have gone.
How we are emptying our seas, The Sunday Times, May 10, 2009.
Pauly, Daniel (2004) Reconciling Fisheries with Conservation: the Challenge of Managing Aquatic Ecosystems Fourth World Fisheries Congress, Vancouver, 2004.
Climate change[edit]
Main article: Fisheries and climate change
Rising ocean temperatures[22] and ocean acidification[23] are radically altering aquatic ecosystems. Climate change is modifying fish distribution[24] and the productivity of marine and freshwater species. This reduces sustainable catch levels across many habitats, puts pressure on resources needed for aquaculture, on the communities that depend on fisheries, and on the oceans' ability to capture and store carbon (biological pump). Sea level rise puts coastal fishing communities at risk, while changing rainfall patterns and water use impact on inland (freshwater) fisheries and aquaculture.
Ocean pollution[edit]
Main article: Marine pollution
A recent survey of global ocean health concluded that all parts of the ocean have been impacted by human development and that 41 percent has been fouled with human polluted runoff, overfishing, and other abuses.[25] Pollution is not easy to fix, because pollution sources are so dispersed, and are built into the economic systems we depend on.
The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) mapped the impacts of stressors such as climate change, pollution, exotic species, and over-exploitation of resources on the oceans. The report shows at least 75 percent of the world's key fishing grounds may be affected.[26][27][28]
Diseases and toxins[edit]
See also: Fish diseases and parasites, Harmful algal blooms, and Mercury in fish
Large predator fish contain significant amounts of mercury, a neurotoxin which can affect fetal development, memory, mental focus, and produce tremors.
Irrigation[edit]
Abandoned ship near Aral, Kazakhstan.
Lakes are dependent on the inflow of water from its drainage basin. In some areas, aggressive irrigation has caused this inflow to decrease significantly, causing water depletion and a shrinking of the lake. The most notable example is the Aral Sea, formerly among the four largest lakes in the world, now only a tenth of its former surface area.
Remediation[edit]
Fisheries management[edit]
Main article: Fisheries management
Fisheries management draws on fisheries science to enable sustainable exploitation. Modern fisheries management is often defined as mandatory rules based on concrete objectives and a mix of management techniques, enforced by a monitoring control and surveillance system.[29][30][31]
Ideas and rules: Economist Paul Romer believes sustainable growth is possible providing the right ideas (technology) are combined with the right rules, rather than simply hectoring fishers. There has been no lack of innovative ideas about how to harvest fish. He characterizes failures as primarily failures to apply appropriate rules.[32][33]
Fishing subsidies: Government subsidies influence many of the world fisheries. Operating cost subsidies allow European and Asian fishing fleets to fish in distant waters, such as West Africa. Many experts reject fishing subsidies and advocate restructuring incentives globally to help struggling fisheries recover.[34][35]
Economics: Another focus of conservationists is on curtailing detrimental human activities by improving fisheries' market structure with techniques such as salable fishing quotas, like those set up by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization, or laws such as those listed below.[36]
Payment for Ecosystem Services: Environmental Economist, Essam Y Mohammed, argues that by creating direct economic incentives, whereby people are able to receive payment for the services their property provides, will help to establish sustainable fisheries around the world as well as inspire conservation where it otherwise would not.[37]
Sustainable fisheries certification: A promising direction is the independent certification programs for sustainable fisheries conducted by organizations such as the Marine Stewardship Council and Friend of the Sea. These programs work at raising consumer awareness and insight into the nature of their seafood purchases.
Ecosystem based fisheries: See next section
Ecosystem based fisheries[edit]

We propose that rebuilding ecosystems, and not sustainability per se, should be the goal of fishery management. Sustainability is a deceptive goal because human harvesting of fish leads to a progressive simplification of ecosystems in favour of smaller, high turnover, lower trophic level fish species that are adapted to withstand disturbance and habitat degradation.

Tony Pitcher and Daniel Pauly, [38]
According to marine ecologist Chris Frid, the fishing industry points to marine pollution and global warming as the causes of recent, unprecedented declines in fish populations. Frid counters that overfishing has also altered the way the ecosystem works. "Everybody would like to see the rebuilding of fish stocks and this can only be achieved if we understand all of the influences, human and natural, on fish dynamics. He adds: fish communities can be altered in a number of ways, for example they can decrease if particular-sized individuals of a species are targeted, as this affects predator and prey dynamics. Fishing, however, is not the sole cause of changes to marine lifepollution is another example....No one factor operates in isolation and components of the ecosystem respond differently to each individual factor."[39]
The traditional approach to fisheries science and management has been to focus on a single species. This can be contrasted with the ecosystem-based approach. Ecosystem-based fishery concepts have been implemented in some regions.[40] In a 2007 effort to "stimulate much needed discussion" and "clarify the essential components" of ecosystem-based fisheries science, a group of scientists offered the following ten commandments for ecosystem-based fisheries scientists[41]

Keep a perspective that is holistic, risk-adverse and adaptive.
Maintain an old growth structure in fish populations, since big, old and fat female fish have been shown to be the best spawners, but are also susceptible to overfishing.
Characterize and maintain the natural spatial structure of fish stocks, so that management boundaries match natural boundaries in the sea.
Monitor and maintain seafloor habitats to make sure fish have food and shelter.
Maintain resilient ecosystems that are able to withstand occasional shocks.
Identify and maintain critical food-web connections, including predators and forage species.
Adapt to ecosystem changes through time, both short-term and on longer cycles of decades or centuries, including global climate change.
Account for evolutionary changes caused by fishing, which tends to remove large, older fish.
Include the actions of humans and their social and economic systems in all ecological equations.

Marine protected areas[edit]
Main article: Marine protected areas
Strategies and techniques for marine conservation tend to combine theoretical disciplines, such as population biology, with practical conservation strategies, such as setting up protected areas, as with Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) or Voluntary Marine Conservation Areas. Each nation defines MPAs independently, but they commonly involve increased protection for the area from fishing and other threats.[42]
Marine life is not evenly distributed in the oceans. Most of the really valuable ecosystems are in relatively shallow coastal waters, above or near the continental shelf, where the sunlit waters are often nutrient rich from land runoff or upwellings at the continental edge, allowing photosynthesis, which energizes the lowest trophic levels. In the 1970s, for reasons more to do with oil drilling than with fishing, the U.S. extended its jurisdiction, then 12 miles from the coast, to 200 miles. This made huge shelf areas part of its territory. Other nations followed, extending national control to what became known as the exclusive economic zone (EEZ). This move has had many implications for fisheries conservation, since it means that most of the most productive maritime ecosystems are now under national jurisdictions, opening possibilities for protecting these ecosystems by passing appropriate laws.
Daniel Pauly characterises marine protected areas as "a conservation tool of revolutionary importance that is being incorporated into the fisheries mainstream."[2] The Pew Charitable Trusts have funded various initiatives aimed at encouraging the development of MPAs and other ocean conservation measures.[43][44][45][46]
Fish farming[edit]
See also: Salmon farming issues
There exists concerns that farmed fish cannot produce necessary yields efficiently. For example, farmed salmon eat three pounds of wild fish to produce one pound of salmon.[47][48][49][50][51][52][53][54]
Laws and treaties[edit]
International laws and treaties related to marine conservation include the 1966 Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas. United States laws related to marine conservation include the 1972 Marine Mammal Protection Act, as well as the 1972 Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act which established the National Marine Sanctuaries program. Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act.
Awareness campaigns[edit]
See also: Sustainable seafood advisory lists and certification
Introducing the results of long term monitoring to a local fishermen in Kihnu, Estonia.
Various organizations promote sustainable fishing strategies, educate the public and stakeholders, and lobby for conservation law and policy. The list includes the Marine Conservation Biology Institute and Blue Frontier Campaign in the U.S., The U.K.'s Frontier (the Society for Environmental Exploration) and Marine Conservation Society, Australian Marine Conservation Society, International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES), Langkawi Declaration, Oceana, PROFISH, and the Sea Around Us Project, International Collective in Support of Fishworkers, World Forum of Fish Harvesters and Fish Workers, Frozen at Sea Fillets Association and CEDO.
The United Nations Millennium Development Goals include, as goal #7: target 2, the intention to "reduce biodiversity loss, achieving, by 2010, a significant reduction in the rate of loss", including improving fisheries management to reduce depletion of fish stocks.[55][56]
Some organizations certify fishing industry players for sustainable or good practices, such as the Marine Stewardship Council and Friend of the Sea.
Other organizations offer advice to members of the public who eat with an eye to sustainability. According to the marine conservation biologist Callum Roberts, four criteria apply when choosing seafood:[57]
Is the species in trouble in the wild where the animals were caught?
Does fishing for the species damage ocean habitats?
Is there a large amount of bycatch taken with the target species?
Does the fishery have a problem with discardsgenerally, undersized animals caught and thrown away because their market value is low?
The following organizations have download links for wallet-sized cards, listing good and bad choices:[58]
Monterey Bay Aquarium Seafood Watch, USA[59]
Blue Ocean Institute, USA[60]
Marine Conservation Society, UK[61]
Australian Marine Conservation Society[62]
The Southern African Sustainable Seafood Initiative[63]
Data issues[edit]
Data quality[edit]
One of the major impediments to the rational control of marine resources is inadequate data. According to fisheries scientist Milo Adkison (2007), the primary limitation in fisheries management decisions is poor data. Fisheries management decisions are often based on population models, but the models need quality data to be accurate. Scientists and fishery managers would be better served with simpler models and improved data.[64]
Unreported fishing[edit]
Estimates of illegal catch losses range between $10 billion and $23 billion annually, representing between 11 and 26 million tonnes.[65]
Incidental catch[2]
Shifting baselines[edit]
Shifting baselines is a term which describes the way significant changes to a system are measured against previous baselines, which themselves may represent significant changes from the original state of the system. The term was first used by the fisheries scientist Daniel Pauly in his paper "Anecdotes and the shifting baseline syndrome of fisheries".[66] Pauly developed the term in reference to fisheries management where fisheries scientists sometimes fail to identify the correct "baseline" population size (e.g. how abundant a fish species population was before human exploitation) and thus work with a shifted baseline. He describes the way that radically depleted fisheries were evaluated by experts who used the state of the fishery at the start of their careers as the baseline, rather than the fishery in its untouched state. Areas that swarmed with a particular species hundreds of years ago, may have experienced long term decline, but it is the level of decades previously that is considered the appropriate reference point for current populations. In this way large declines in ecosystems or species over long periods of time were, and are, masked. There is a loss of perception of change that occurs when each generation redefines what is "natural".[67]
Looting the seas[edit]
Looting the seas is the name given by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists to a series of journalistic investigations into areas directly affecting the sustainability of fisheries. So far they have investigated three areas involving fraud, negligence and overfishing:[68]
The black market in bluefin tuna
Subsidies propping up the Spanish fishing industry
Overfishing of the southern jack mackerel
See also[edit]
Community-supported fishery
The End of the Line
Ocean Conservancy
International Seafood Sustainability Foundation
Worldwatch Institute
Marine Life Protection Act
Aral Sea
List of commercially important fish species
Aquaculture Stewardship Council
Marine Stewardship Council
Notes[edit]
^ a b c d e f g h i j k l Hilborn, Ray (2005) "Are Sustainable Fisheries Achievable?" Chapter 15, pp. 247259, in Norse and Crowder (2005).
^ a b c d Preikshot, Dave and Pauly, Daniel (2005) "Global Fisheries and Marine Conservation: Is Coexistence Possible?" Chapter 11, pp. 185197, in Norse and Crowder (2005).
^ Tietenberg TH (2006) Environmental and Natural Resource Economics: A Contemporary Approach. Page 28. Pearson/Addison Wesley. ISBN 978-0-321-30504-6
^ Knapp G, Roheim CA and Anderson JL (2007) The Great Salmon Run: Competition Between Wild And Farmed Salmon World Wildlife Fund. ISBN 0-89164-175-0
^ Washington Post. Salmon Farming May Doom Wild Populations, Study Says.
^ Norse & Crowder 2005, Page xix
^ Huxley, Thomas (1883)Inaugural Address Fisheries Exhibition, London.
^ Goode GB and Collins JW (1887) "The fresh-halibut fishery". In: The fisheries and fishery industry of the United States. Section V. History and methods of the fisheries, Vol. I, Part I. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC. p. 389.
^ Redclift, M. (2005). "Sustainable Development (19872005): an Oxymoron Comes of Age." Sustainable Development 13(4): 212227.
^ Fisheries and Aquaculture in our Changing Climate Policy brief of the FAO for the UNFCCC COP-15 in Copenhagen, December 2009.
^ Johannes R (1981) Words of the lagoon: Fishing and Marine Lore in the Palau District of Micronesia, University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-03929-7
^ Casey JM and Myers RA (1998) "Near extinction of a large, widely distributed fish" Science, 280:690692.
^ Pauly, Daniel (2004) Reconciling Fisheries with Conservation: the Challenge of Managing Aquatic Ecosystems Fourth World Fisheries Congress, Vancouver, 2004.
^ Ludwig D, Hilborn R and Walter C (1993) "Uncertainty, resource exploitation and conservation: Lessons from history", Science, '230:1726.
^ http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/blue_planet/problems/problems_fishing/
^ http://www.aspoitalia.net/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=34&Itemid=39
^ http://www.hubbertpeak.com/laherrere/multihub.htm
^ Jacquet J (2009) "Silent water: a brief examination of the marine fisheries crisis" Journal Environment, Development and Sustainability, 11(2):255-263.
^ Sarwar G.M. (2005) "Impacts of Sea Level Rise on the Coastal Zone of Bangladesh" Masters thesis. Lund University.
^ Coral reefs around the world Guardian.co.uk, 2 September 2009.
^ Watling, Les (2005) "The global destruction of bottom habitats by mobile fishing gear" Chapter 12, pp. 198210, in Norse and Crowder (2005).
^ Observations: Oceanic Climate Change and Sea Level In: Climate Change 2007: The Physical Science Basis. Contribution of Working Group I to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. (15MB).
^ Doney, S. C. (2006) "The Dangers of Ocean Acidification" Scientific American, March 2006.
^ Cheung, W.W.L., et al. (2009) "Redistribution of Fish Catch by Climate Change. A Summary of a New Scientific Analysis" Pew Ocean Science Series. Oct 2009.
^ Benjamin S. Halpern, Shaun Walbridge, Kimberly A. Selkoe, Carrie V. Kappel, Fiorenza Micheli, Caterina D'Agrosa et al. 15 February 2008. "A Global Map of Human Impact on Marine Ecosystems." Science, 319(5865):948952.
^ Census of Marine Life  the largest oceanographic project in history.
^ Nellemann, C., Hain, S., and Alder, J. (Eds). February 2008. In Dead Water: Merging of climate change with pollution, over-harvest, and infestations in the worlds fishing grounds. United Nations Environment Programme, GRID-Arendal, Norway. Available at http://www.unep.org/pdf/InDeadWater_LR.pdf Off-site Link
^ The New York Times, 9 March 2008 Available at: http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/09/opinion/09sun2.html?ref=todayspaper Off-site Link
^ Hilborn, R (2007) "Managing fisheries is managing people: what has been learned?" Fish and Fisheries, 8:285296.
^ Pauly, D. (2007). Off-site Link "The Sea Around Us Project: Documenting and Communicating Global Fisheries Impacts on Marine Ecosystems." Ambio, 36(4): 290-295.
^ Sumaila, U.R., Khan, A., Watson, R., Munro, G., Zeller, D., Baron, N. and Pauly, D. (2007). "The World Trade Organization and global fisheries sustainability." Fisheries Research, 88: 14.
^ Fish Proverb v2.0 (Bringing in Rules) Paul Romer, 29 July 2009.
^ Running notes from session 7 Paul Romer at TEDGlobal 2009.
^ Sumaila, U.R. and Pauly, D. (2007). "All fishing nations must unite to end subsidies." Nature, 450: 945.
^ Clark C, Munro G and Sumaila UR (2004) Subsidies, Decommissioning Schemes and Effective Fisheries Management Fourth World Fisheries Congress, Vancouver, 2004.
^ Sumaila UR (2004) Valuation and the reconciliation of fisheries with conservation Fourth World Fisheries Congress, Vancouver, 2004.
^ http://shapingsustainablemarkets.iied.org/direct-economic-incentives-sustainable-fisheries-management-case-hilsa-conservation-bangladesh
^ Pitcher TJ and Pauly D (1998) "Rebuilding ecosystems, not sustainability, as the proper goal of fishery management" Pages 311-325 in T Pitcher, D Pauly and P Hart, Reinventing Fisheries Management, Chapman & Hall.
^ University of Liverpool (2006). "Marine Ecologists To Help Rebuild Decreasing Fish Stocks" ScienceDaily.
^ Christensen, Villy (2004) Using ecosystem modeling for fisheries management and marine ecosystem conservation: Where are we? Fourth World Fisheries Congress, Vancouver, 2004.
^ Francis RC, Hixon MA, Clarke ME, Murawski SA, and Ralston S (2007) Ten commandments for ecosystem-based fisheries scientists Proceedings of Coastal Zone 07, Portland, Oregon. Download
^ Wood, L. J. (2007). MPA Global: A database of the world's marine protected areas. Sea Around Us Project, UNEP-WCMC & WWF. Available at www.mpaglobal.org. Off-site Link MPA News, March 2008
^ Pew, SeaWeb shrug off oil to target fishing. Retrieved 11 October 2009.
^ Roberts, Callum (2007) The Unnatural History of the Sea: The Past and Future of Humanity and Fishing Island Press. ISBN 978-1-85675-294-7
^ Protecting Sea Life: Marine Reserves Callum Roberts. Retrieved 20 September 2009.
^ Seas of Plenty The Wildlife Trusts.
^ Fish Info Network from Globefish Globefish is the unit in the Fisheries Department of the FAO responsible for information on international fish trade.
^ Mann, C. C. (2004). The Bluewater Revolution. Wired Magazine, 12:05, www.wired.com/wired/archive/12.05/fish.html Off-site Link
^ Naylor, R. L., Goldburg, R. J., Primavera, J., Kautsky, N., Beveridge, M. C. M., Clay, J., Folke, C., Lubchenco, J., Mooney, H. and Troel, M. (2001). [www.esa.org/science_resources/issues/FileEnglish/issue8.pdf "Effects of Aquaculture on World Fish Supplies."] Issues in Ecology, 8: 114.
^ The Greening of the Blue National Geographic Magazine, April 2007.
^ Pauly, D. "Aquacalypse Now" The New Republic, September 28, 2009.
^ Sustainable Fisheries Partnership Home page.
^ Sustainable Fisheries Partnership: SFP Briefing: Sustainable Aquaculture Feeds and Wild Fisheries , 2009.
^ Sustainable Fisheries Partnership: Press Release: Growing issue of sustainable aquaculture feeds present threats and opportunities  seafood retailers risk charge of blue-washing September 28, 2009.
^ Millennium Development Report 2008: Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability United Nations.
^ Millennium Development Report 2008 United Nations.
^ Advice for Seafood Lovers Callum Roberts. Retrieved 20 September 2009.
^ J. L. and D. Pauly. (2007) "The rise of consumer awareness campaigns in an era of collapsing fisheries" Marine Policy, 31: 308-313.
^ link
^ link
^ link
^ link
^ link
^ University of Alaska Fairbanks (2007) Adkison advocates increased fisheries data gathering
^ UBC Fisheries Centre (2008) The Global Extent of Illegal Fishing University of British Columbia.
^ Pauly (1995)
^ [1]
^ Looting the Seas iWatch News, 17 March 2012.
References[edit]
Norse, Elliott A. and Crowder, Larry B. (Eds.) (2005) Marine Conservation Biology: The Science of Maintaining the Sea's Biodiversity, Island Press. ISBN 978-1-55963-662-9
Ray, G. Carleton and McCormick-Ray, Jerry (eds). (2004). "Coastal-marine conservation: science and policy". Malden, Ma: Blackwell.
Marine Conservation Biology Institute (MCBI [2]) Bibliography of resources.
McLeod, Karen and Leslie. Heather (Eds.) (2009) Ecosystem-Based Management for the Oceans Island Press. ISBN 978-1-59726-155-5
Berkes F, Mahon R, McConney P, Pollnac R and Pomeroy R (2001) Managing Small-Scale Fisheries: Alternative Directions and Methods IDRC,. ISBN 978-0-88936-943-6
Mann, Kenneth and Lazier, John (3rd Ed. 2005) Dynamics of Marine Ecosystems: Biological-Physical Interactions in the Oceans Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 978-1-4051-1118-8
Norse EA and Crowder LB (Eds) (2005) Marine conservation biology: the science of maintaining the sea's biodiversity Island Press. ISBN 978-1-55963-662-9
Duffy, J. Emmett (2008) Marine biodiversity and food security Encyclopedia of Earth. Updated 25 July 2008.
Worm B, Hilborn R, Baum JK, Branch TA, Collie JS, Costello C, Fogarty MJ, Fulton EA, Hutchings JA, Jennings S, Jensen OP, Lotze HK, Mace PM, McClanahan TR, Minto C, Palumbi SR, Parma AM, Ricard D, Rosenberg AA, Watson R and Zeller D (2009) "Rebuilding global fisheries" Science,325:578-585.
Grafton RQ, Hilborn R, Ridgeway L, Squires D, Williams M, Garcia S, Groves T, Joseph J, Kelleher K, Kompas T, Libecap G, Lundin CG, Makino M, Matthiasson T, McLoughlin R, Parma A, San Martin G, Satia B, Schmidt C-C, Tait M and Zhang LX (2008) "Positioning fisheries in a changing world" Marine Policy (United Kingdom), 32:630-634.
Hilborn R (2008) "Knowledge on how to achieve sustainable fisheries" Pages 4556 in K Tsukamoto, T Kawamura, T Takeuchi, TD Beard, Jr, MJ Kaiser (eds), Fisheries for Global Welfare and Environment, 5th World Fisheries Congress 2008.
Hughes TP, Bellwooda DR, Folkeb C, Steneck RS and Wilson J (2005) "New paradigms for supporting the resilience of marine ecosystems" Trends in Ecology & Evolution, 20(7):380-386 .
Gell FR and Roberts CM (2003) "Benefits beyond boundaries: the fishery effects of marine reserves" Trends in Ecology & Evolution, 18(9):448-455 .
Pauly D, Christensen V, Gunette S, Pitcher TJ, Sumaila UR, Walters CJ, Watson R and Zeller D (2002) "Towards sustainability in world fisheries" Review article. Nature, 418: 689-695. 824 citations.
Devine1 JA, Baker1 KD and Haedrich RL (2006) "Fisheries: Deep-sea fishes qualify as endangered" Nature, 439: 29.
Shifting Environmental Baselines
"An Interview with Jennifer Jacquet: Small-scale fisheries are "best hope" for sustainability in developing world Mongabay.com, September 8, 2008.
Overfishing Mongabay.com.
Fisheries Management: 2006 Publications
Fisheries Management: 2007 Publications
Fisheries Management: 2008 Publications
Sustainable Fisheries MarineBio.
2006-2007 Report UBC Fisheries Centre.
recent references and imbroglio
Banobi JA, Branch TA and Hilbourn R (2011) "Do rebuttals affect future science?" Ecosphere, 2 (3): article 37.
Branch, TA; Watson, Reg; Fulton, Elizabeth A.; Jennings, Simon; McGilliard, Carey R.; Pablico, Grace T.; Ricard, Daniel; Tracey, Sean R. (2010). "Trophic fingerprint of marine fisheries" (PDF). Nature. 468 (7322): 431435. doi:10.1038/nature09528. PMID21085178.
Hilborn R (2010) "Apocalypse forestalled: why all the worlds fisheries arent collapsing" Nature Conservancy, Science Chronicles, November 2010, pp.59.
Pauly, Daniel (2009) "Beyond duplicity and ignorance in global fisheries" Scientia Marina, Feature article, 73 (2): 215224. doi:10.3989/scimar.2009.73n2215
Pauly D and Froese R (2012) "Comments on FAOs State of Fisheries and Aquaculture, or SOFIA 2010 Marine Policy, 6: 746752.
Sethi, SA; Branch, TA; Watson, R (2010). "Global fishery development patterns are driven by profit but not trophic level". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 107 (27): 1216312167. doi:10.1073/pnas.1003236107.
Taylor WA, AJ Lynch and M Schechter (Eds) (2011) Sustainable Fisheries: Multi-level Approaches to a Global Problem, American Fisheries Society. ISBN 978-1-934874-21-9. Review
Watson R, Zeller D and Pauly D (2011) "Spatial expansion of EU and non-EU fishing fleets into the global ocean, 1950 to the present" Sea Around Us, Report commissioned by WWF Netherlands.
Worm, Boris; Hilbourbe, Ray; and 19 others (2009) "Rebuilding global fisheries" Science, 325:578585.
Fisheries science and wild fisheries
Fisheries science
Population dynamics of fisheries
Shifting baseline
Fish stock
Fish mortality
Condition index
Stock assessment
Fish measurement
Standard weight in fish
Fish counter
Data storage tag
Catch per unit effort
Otolith microchemical analysis
Biomass
Fisheries acoustics
Acoustic tag
Coded wire tag
GIS and aquatic science
Pop-up satellite archival tag
EcoSCOPE
Age class structure
Trophic level
Trophic cascades
Match/mismatch hypothesis
Fisheries and climate change
Marine biology
Aquatic ecosystems
Bioeconomics
EconMult
Ecopath
FishBase
Census of Marine Life
OSTM
Fisheries databases
Institutes
Fisheries scientists
Wild fisheries
Ocean fisheries
Diversity of fish
Coastal fish
Coral reef fish
Demersal fish
Forage fish
Pelagic fish
Cod fisheries
Crab fisheries
Eel fisheries
Krill fisheries
Kelp fisheries
Lobster fisheries
Shrimp fishery
Eel ladder
Fish ladder
Fish screen
Migration
Salmon run
Sardine run
Shoaling and schooling
Marine habitats
Marine snow
Water column
Upwelling
Humboldt current
Algal blooms
Dead zones
Fish kill
Fisheries management, sustainability and conservation
Management
Fisheries management
Fisheries law
Monitoring control and surveillance
Vessel monitoring system
Fishery Resources Monitoring System
Catch reporting
Fisheries observer
Illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing
MagnusonStevens Act
Pulse fishing
Fisheries organizations
Quotas
Catch share
Individual fishing quota
Minimum landing size
Slot limit
Bycatch
Discards
Incidental catch
Cetacean bycatch
Turtle excluder device
Shrimp-Turtle case
EU quotas
EU MLS
Exclusive economic zone
Sustainability
Sustainable fisheries
Maximum sustainable yield
List of harvested aquatic animals by weight
Sustainable seafood
Overfishing
Environmental effects of fishing
Fishing down the food web
Destructive fishing practices
Future of Marine Animal Populations
The Sunken Billions
The End of the Line
Conservation
Marine Protected Area
Marine reserve
Marine conservation
Marine conservation activism
Salmon conservation
Grey nurse shark conservation
Shark sanctuary
Organisations
The Black Fish
Marine Stewardship Council
Aquaculture Stewardship Council
Friend of the Sea
SeaChoice
Seafood Watch
Ocean Conservancy
Oceana
Sea Around Us Project
WorldFish Center
Defying Ocean's End
HERMIONE
PROFISH
International Seafood Sustainability Foundation
Sea Shepherd Conservation Society
Greenpeace
Related issues
CalCOFI
Fish slaughter
Marine pollution
Mercury in fish
Shark finning
Threatened sharks
Threatened rays
List of fishing topics by subject
Index of fishing articles
Fisheries glossary
Sustainable development portal
Nautical portal
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1238
Cached time: 20161120013815
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.232 seconds
Real time usage: 0.290 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 2053/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 72701/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 10051/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 8/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.043/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.43 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
186.204
1 - -total
16.53%
30.777
1 - Template:Fishery_science_topics
16.04%
29.871
2 - Template:Cite_journal
15.57%
28.997
1 - Template:Reflist
15.30%
28.492
1 - Template:Navbox_with_collapsible_groups
11.57%
21.551
6 - Template:Main
6.85%
12.746
1 - Template:Portal_bar
3.16%
5.886
4 - Template:Rquote
2.81%
5.237
1 - Template:Multiple_image
2.75%
5.112
4 - Template:See_also
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:481277-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120013815 and revision id 735931950
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sustainable_fishery&oldid=735931950"
Categories: Sustainable fisheriesFish conservationHidden categories: Pages using ISBN magic links