Sustainabilitybrand
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Sustainability brands are products and services that are branded to signify a special added value in terms of environmental and social benefits to the customer and thus enable the differentiation from competitors.[1][2]
Contents
1 Overview
2 Sustainability brands vs. Sustainable Brands
3 Sustainability brand positioning and the 8 C's
4 Sustainability brand name selection
5 Sustainability brand development
6 See also
7 References
8 Further reading
Overview[edit]
Sustainability branding is the process of creating and maintaining an identity of a specific product, service, or business that reflects special added value in terms of environmental and social benefits.[1] A brand is only perceived as being sustainable if it can credibly convey sustainability benefits which are noticeable by and relevant to the consumer.[2] A sustainability brand must have an integrated culture for success. The key to a sustainable brand is trust between the consumer and the brand, only when this is achieved can a sustainable brand truly generate a USP and reap the benefits of it.
Opposed to the term green brands which mainly focuses on environmentally sound business practices, sustainability brands additionally acknowledge the social dimension of providing products and services. This entails, among others, health and safety issues resulting from direct or indirect product use (consumption level) as well as the conditions under which a particular product is produced (production level). The physical protection and well-being of people at work (i.e. employees as well as workers within the supply chains) are important indicators of sustainability brands and sustainability marketing in general which adheres to the triple bottom line of ecological (environmental), social (equity), and financial (economic) sustainability.[1][3]
A brand is able to evoke positive or negative feelings, especially in the context of sensitive social and ecological issues. The more positive the perceptions and feelings are towards a brand, the higher will be the likelihood of identification and loyalty amongst consumers. It is therefore crucial in sustainability marketing to build up strong brands. In doing so, companies face far-reaching decisions in the areas of brand positioning (1), sustainability brand name selection (2), and sustainability brand development (3), in order to create and build sustainability brands that consumers associate with social and environmental added value.[1]
Environmental marketing claims on products and packages need to be made (and read) with caution. Ambiguous greenwashing titles such as green product, green packaging and environmentally friendly can be confusing without specific definition. Some regulators, such as the US Federal Trade Commission, are providing guidance[4]
Sustainability brands vs. Sustainable Brands[edit]
Since the adjective sustainable might convey the notion of brands that have long-lasting success, implicating durable competitive advantage without any particular reference to a sustainability agenda, the term sustainability brand should be used to prevent ambiguity. Albeit subtle difference, the latter explicitly emphasizes the notion of brands which have built their brand image upon sustainable business practices that consumers value. Sustainability brands are commonly referred to in the field of sustainability marketing.[5]
Sustainability brand positioning and the 8 C's[edit]
Sustainability Brand Positioning and positioning in general is part of the brand identity and value proposition that is to be actively communicated to the target audience[6] and can be described as an iterative process, consisting of deliberate and proactive actions aimed at the definition of distinct consumer perceptions.[7] Sustainable brand positioning is the brand positioning of Sustainable products and services. Sustainable products and services should offer an improved social and ecological performance during the whole product lifecycle and at the same time they have to satisfy consumer needs and wants. Many of the first generation sustainability brands failed in the market because companies overemphasized the positive socio-ecological product attributes, while they neglected to focus on other product attributes such as performance, functionality or design, too. As a result, many products could not compete against conventional products.[1]
To build up and position strong sustainability brands, there are some guidelines to follow. Marc Stoiber [8] summed them up in the The five Cs of Sustainability Branding:[9] Consumer Facing, Competitive, Core, Conversational and credible. Perrine Bouhana added to that concept a sixth C: Consistency. Martin Belz complemented and revised this concept to 8 Cs of sustainability branding and describes them as followed:[10]
Core
Sustainability should be tied up to the key problems and the core business through assessing the socio-ecological impacts of products along the entire life-cycle of the products and finding out the socio-ecological hot-spots of the product-life-cycle.
Co-operative
The solutions to the main socio-ecological problems associated with products along the entire life cycle require - both in the process of innovating and marketing sustainable products and services - co-operations with suppliers, retailers, consumers, scientists, and other non-market actors (e.g. NGOs).
Credible
Fundamentals of credibility are first the solving of key socio-ecological problems associated with companies products and second tying sustainability to the core business. Co-operations with trustworthy partners and the use of independent, third-party labels (e.g. labels like Bio or MSC) such as a high level of transparency (e.g. through an online tracking system, which enables consumers to see the world of behind the product) can additionally increase the credibility of sustainability brands.
Consumer Benefits
Socio-ecological characteristics or attributes of products usually just play an auxiliary role (no core benefits). To broaden the appeal of sustainability brands, the companies should emphasize the inherent consumer benefits of socio-ecological attributes, including efficiency and cost effectiveness, health and safety, symbolism and status. Further they should align socio-ecological attributes with benefits such as functionality, design, and durability to create motive alliances.
Conversational
Sustainability branding is more effective as a two-way conversation, rather than a one-way announcement. Inviting consumers to enter into dialogues about the sustainability process strengthens the brand-consumer relationship.
Consistency
If sustainability is key to brand positioning, this requires a kind of integrated approach to sustainability communication: it is important to communicate in a consistent way, including e.g. advertising, personal selling or online communication. In addition to that, the sustainability product brand has to be consistent with the overall environmental and social performance of the company.
Commitment
Sustainability branding not only requires the commitment of the PR department and the sustainability officers but also requires the commitment of top management and marketing decision makers.
Continuity
Sustainability must reflect the core values of the brand and contribute to delivering the brand promise over the long term. This means that a brand cannot change its sustainability focus too often, or engage in too many non-related areas.
Sustainability brand name selection[edit]
In the course of choosing the right name, Sustainability brands must first just like brand names in the conventional sense- follow well-established rules. In general, a good brand name should consider three areas:[11] memorability (distinctive short name, evoking emotions), strategic fit (they should relate to the actual product; ability to expand to other brands) and legal (legal protection under trade mark law etc.) [12]
Sustainability Brands, however, go one step further and incorporate something that conveys the notion of social and/or ecological awareness.
A popular example is Better Place, a global provider of electric vehicle networks and services that works in a joint venture with Renault Nissan Alliance Motor Company to promote the use of electric cars.[13] The founder, Shai Agassi, was intrigued by a question posed at the World Economic Forum in 2005 "How do you make the world a better place by 2020?".[14] Thus the name Better Place. It is not related to the product (electric vehicle) but to much wider social and ecological issues (depletion of natural resources, CO2 emissions), which the company addresses or rather offers the solution for.
Sustainability brand names can be part of a new product launch, an extension to an existing (conventional) brand or be so new to the market that they create a product category themselves. Each of these approaches has specific strategic implications.
Enter Established Market
Entering a saturated market such as the one for conventional household detergents with a sustainability brand might prove extremely difficult. However, there are companies that have successfully entered the market and positioned their brand as sustainability leaders. Seventh Generation, for instance, is the US market leader in four product categories (Household, Laundry, Personal and Baby Care) with products that in the words of the company- protect human health and the environment. [15]
Brand Extension / Aligning Existing Brand
Established brands can leverage their existing brand recognition to extend their name to new products, which are then marketed as socially and ecologically friendly. Tide, a popular detergent brand in the US, expanded its brand to meet the demands of the ecological conscious consumer by launching Tide Cold Water Detergent in 2005. The product requires only cold water and thus saves energy. In 2010, it was given the Green GH seal, which is only awarded after a cradle to grave examination of the product.[16]
Creating entirely new Product Categories
Sustainability brand names can also succeed if they achieve to create a product category for themselves where there is virtually no competition yet. When the car-sharing concept was fairly new, companies such as Mobility CarSharing in Switzerland did neither compete with car companies nor public transportation providers.[1]
Sustainability brand development[edit]
Sustainability brand development
Sustainability brands are subject to constant change. A sustainability brand that is well established on the market, can be further developed into different directions. According to Belz and Peattie [1] four main options for development are possible:
Line extension occurs when a company adds new products of the same product category under the same sustainability brand name.
Sustainability brand extension occurs when a company introduces products of a different product category but under the same sustainability brand name.
Multi-sustainability brands occur when a company manages two or more different sustainability brands but in the same product category.
New sustainability brands occur when a company creates an entire new brand name when they access a new product category. For example MUD Jeans.
To create a sustainability brand it is furthermore important to adopt the right channels for marketing according to Lauterborns five Cs. Advertising in this case can help to create awareness of the brand and thus form the new brand experience.[1][17] Furthermore, it is obligatory for Sustainability brands to obtain one ore more ecolabels, leading to a higher influence on consumer behaviour and the perception of the brand.[1]
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Ecological economics
Ecologically sustainable development
Environmentally friendly
Sustainable packaging
References[edit]
^ a b c d e f g h i Belz F., Peattie K.(2009): Sustainability Marketing: A Global Perspective. John Wiley & Sons
^ a b H. Meffert, C. Rauch & H.L. Lepp. 2010. Sustainable Branding  mehr als ein neues Schlagwort?! Marketing Review St. Gallen 27 (5) Pages 28-35
^ Peattie, 2001
^ "Environmental Claims". Federal Trade Commission. 2008-11-17. Retrieved 17 November 2008.
^ J. Ottman.2010. The New Rules of Green Marketing: Strategies, Tools, and Inspiration for Sustainable Branding. Berrett-Koehler Publishers Inc., San Francisco, California
^ Aaker D. and Joachimsthaler E., 2000, Brand Leadership, FreePress
^ Kalafatis, S.P., Tsogas, M.H. and Blankson, C. (2000), Positioning strategies in business markets, Journal of Business & Industrial Marketing, Vol. 15 No. 6, pp. 416-37
^ The 5 C's of Sustainability Branding From "Maddock Douglas Innovation Engine: The Innovation Engine Community
^ A Sixth C For Sustainability Branding: Consistency  Sustainability & CSR Conversations
^ Sustainability Marketing: The Eight Cs of Sustainability Branding
^ Three Criteria of a Good Brand Name - Brand Development
^ Kotler, P. & Armstrong, G. (2004) The Principles of Marketing, 10th edn, Upper Sadde River, NJ: Prentic Hall p. 293. for brand name selection in general
^ Better Place | The Global Provider of EV Networks and Services
^ Copenhagen Climate Council
^ About Seventh Generation | Seventh Generation
^ Eco Friendly Laundry Detergents - Tide Coldwater Laundry Detergents - Good Housekeeping
^ Lauterborn,R (1990) 'New marketing litany: 4 Ps pass; C-words take over', Advertising Age"
Further reading[edit]
Belz F., Peattie K.(2009): Sustainability Marketing: A Global Perspective. John Wiley & Sons.
Aaker, D.A. and Joachimsthaler, E. (2000), Brand Leadership, The Free Press, New York, NY
H. Meffert, C. Rauch & H.L. Lepp. 2010. Sustainable Branding  mehr als ein neues Schlagwort?! Marketing Review St. Gallen 27 (5) Pages 2835
Patrick Hartmann, Vanessa Apaolaza Ibez, F. Javier Forcada Sainz, (2005) "Green branding effects on attitude: functional versus emotional positioning strategies", Marketing Intelligence & Planning, Vol. 23 Iss: 1, pp.9  29
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1268
Cached time: 20161119015225
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.084 seconds
Real time usage: 0.110 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 488/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 29942/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 64/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 7/40
Expensive parser function count: 0/500
Lua time usage: 0.020/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 1.52 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
62.110
1 - -total
56.18%
34.892
1 - Template:Reflist
39.05%
24.256
1 - Template:Cite_web
21.91%
13.609
1 - Template:Sustainability
21.66%
13.455
1 - Template:Portal
19.00%
11.803
1 - Template:Navbox
1.40%
0.870
1 - Template:Allow_wrap
1.32%
0.822
1 - Template:Column-count
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:32252462-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161119015225 and revision id 749296096
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sustainability_brand&oldid=749296096"
Categories: Sustainable businessBrand management