Sustainableurbaninfrastructure
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (July 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. No cleanup reason has been specified. Please help improve this article if you can. (September 2008) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2007) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Sustainable urban infrastructure, also called sustainable municipal infrastructure in Canada, is an infrastructure that facilitates a place or regions progress towards the goal of sustainable living.[1] Attention is paid to technological and government policy which enables urban planning for sustainable architecture and initiatives that promote sustainable agriculture.
According to the College of Engineering and Applied Science of the University of Colorado Denver, urban infrastructure refers to the engineered systems (water, energy, transport, sanitation, information) that make up a city. Challenges resulting from increasing population growth generated a need for sustainable infrastructure that is high performing, cost-effective, resource-efficient and environmentally-friendly.[2]
The Swiss Global Infrastructure Basel Foundation (GIB) supports various stakeholders, such as governments, banks and cities, in the designing, implementing and financing sustainable urban infrastructure projects at all stages of the project cycle.[3] Currently, GIB develops, in cooperation with the French bank Natixis, the SuRe Standard  The Standard for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure:[4] a global voluntary ISEAL standard.[5]
Contents
1 Aspects
2 Federation of Canadian Municipalities
3 See also
4 References
5 External links
Aspects[edit]
This article possibly contains original research. Please improve it by verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting only of original research should be removed. (March 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Roadside and urban infrastructures such as signposts, bollards and street furniture are prone to impact from vehicles and damage resulting in ever increasing costs associated with maintenance. " We are in the midst of global infrastructure crisis. Infrastructure worldwide is deteriorating and needs to be replaced or enhanced. Existing public funding sources are inadequate to meet the need, but the problem is more than money  What we believe is required is a broad, robust infrastructure life cycle perspective." Deloitte Research. Closing the Infrastructure Gap. Washington, D.C., Deloitte Research.
New self-healing technology protects surrounding paving and foundations from damage when items of infrastructure are impacted, reducing maintenance and improving the sustainability of urban developments. Self-healing developments result in Zero waste and Zero landfill from maintenance on items of urban infrastructure for the life of the development.
According to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, the planning process of sustainable design can lead to the development of a community that is ecologically, economically, and socially sustainable.[6] The design emphasis for a sustainable urban infrastructure is on localization and sustainable living. The aim is to reduce individual's ecological footprint according to the principles of sustainable development in areas with a high population density.
The criteria for what can be included in this kind of urban environment varies from place to place, given differences in existing infrastructure and built form, climate and availability of local resources or talents.
Generally speaking the following could be considered sustainable urban infrastructure:
public transport networks
Distributed generation and integrated energy demand management initiatives and programs
high efficiency buildings and other development constraints such as only permitting the construction of green buildings and sustainable habitats with energy-efficient landscaping.
connected green spaces and wildlife corridors
Low impact development practices to protect water resources.
Federation of Canadian Municipalities[edit]
Several organizations in Canada related to the FCM InfraGuide project, including the Federation of Canadian Municipalities, Infrastructure Canada, National Research Council of Canada, and Canadian Public Works Association, seek to achieve sustainability in municipal infrastructure especially large scale urban infrastructure, they advocate environmental protocols and inclusion of ecological and social indicators and factors in decision making at the earliest possible stage. There is little focus yet on sustainable rural infrastructure though this is a stated goal of the project, as is spreading it to achieve rural development in developing nations.
In their view, sustainability concerns apply to all of "maintaining, repairing and upgrading the infrastructure that sustains our quality of life" including at least:
municipal decision making and investment planning
potable water supply
stormwater and waste water especially minimizing the distance that such water travels to be treated and reused
roads and sidewalks and their integration with transit systems to achieve smoother flow of people
environmental protocols and multi-discipline practices to ensure they are respected, e.g. green procurement.
These and other Canadian official entities including the Auditor General of Canada and Service Canada are focused on related efforts such as municipal performance audits, information technology and communications technology, moral purchasing and sharing of "data, information, common infrastructure, technology" and the need to "integrate their business processes" to further reduce duplication and waste, especially e-waste and greenhouse gas emissions a concern under Kyoto Protocol targets that Canada has committed to achieve. In 2011, Canada withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol due to economic concerns.[7][8]
Communities of Tomorrow is a non-profit enterprise in Saskatchewan, Canada that fosters the development and commercialization of innovative sustainable infrastructure solutions for the global marketplace. Sustainable infrastructure is the development of water, sewer, roads, and other infrastructure systems that meet the needs of current and future generations in a socially, economically and environmentally sustainable manner. Communities of Tomorrow brings industry firms together with researchers to collaboratively develop new infrastructure solutions to existing or future problems with the ultimate goal to commercialize them. Its about building greener and longer lasting infrastructure, such as roads and water systems, to offer the global marketplace.
See also[edit]
Environmental design
Green infrastructure
Landscape urbanism AALU
New Urbanism
Regional Planning
Smart city
Sustainable urban drainage systems
Transit-Oriented Development
Sustainable Implant
References[edit]
^ http://unepinquiry.org/publication/sustainable-infrastructure-and-finance/
^ "Specialized Areas of Study". Retrieved 5 March 2015.
^ https://issuu.com/utkmedia/docs/nachhaltigesinvestment_2016/65?e=1307954/30767650
^ http://www.laprensalibre.cr/Noticias/detalle/69610/firman-acuerdo-para-garantizar-transparencia-en-construcciones
^ http://www.ictsd.org/bridges-news/bridges-africa/news/sustainable-trade-infrastructure-in-africa-a-key-element-for-growth
^ "Action Planning and the Sustainable Community". U.S. EPA. Retrieved 16 March 2015.
^ "The Global Climate Change Regime". Council on Foreign Relations. Retrieved 16 March 2015.
^ "Canada to withdraw from Kyoto Protocol". http://www.bbc.co.uk/. BBC News. Retrieved 16 March 2015. External link in |website= (help)
This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (March 2013)
External links[edit]
Cities can Save the Earth: the urban solution to climate change, species extinctions and peak oil
Canada's National Round Table on the Environment and Economy suggestions re: sustainable urban infrastructure
Canada's National Round Table on the Environment and Economy Sustainable Cities Initiative
Communities of Tomorrow industry-research partnership in Regina, Canada
v
t
e
Sustainability
Principles
Ecological modernization
Environmentalism
Human impact on the environment
Planetary boundaries
Social sustainability
Stewardship
Sustainable development
Consumption
Anthropization
Anti-consumerism
Ecological footprint
Ethical
Over-consumption
Simple living
Sustainability advertising
Sustainability brand
Sustainability marketing myopia
Sustainable
Systemic change resistance
Tragedy of the commons
Population
Birth control
Family planning
Control
Overpopulation
Zero growth
Technology
Appropriate
Environmental
Sustainable
Biodiversity
Biosecurity
Biosphere
Conservation biology
Deep ecology
Endangered species
Holocene extinction
Invasive species
Energy
Carbon footprint
Climate change mitigation
Conservation
Descent
Efficiency
Emissions trading
Fossil-fuel phase-out
Peak oil
Renewable
Energy poverty
Food
Forest gardening
Local
Permaculture
Security
Sustainable agriculture
Sustainable fishery
Urban horticulture
Water
Conservation
Crisis
Efficiency
Footprint
Accountability
Sustainability accounting
Sustainability measurement
Sustainability metrics and indices
Sustainability reporting
Standards and certification
Sustainable yield
Applications
Advertising
Architecture
Art
Business
City
College programs
Community
Design
Ecovillage
Education for Sustainable Development
Fashion
Gardening
Geopark
Green marketing
Industries
Landscape architecture
Living
Low-impact development
Sustainable market
Organizations
Packaging
Practices
Procurement
Tourism
Transport
Urban drainage systems
Urban infrastructure
Urbanism
Management
Environmental
Fisheries
Forest
Materials
Natural resource
Planetary
Waste
Agreements
UN Conference on the Human Environment (Stockholm 1972)
Brundtlandt Commission Report (1983)
Our Common Future (1987)
Earth Summit (1992)
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development
Agenda 21 (1992)
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992)
ICPD Programme of Action (1994)
Earth Charter
Lisbon Principles
UN Millennium Declaration (2000)
Earth Summit 2002 (Rio+10, Johannesburg)
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20, 2012)
Sustainable Development Goals
Category
Lists
Outline
Portal
Science
Studies
Degrees
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1263
Cached time: 20161117222839
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.188 seconds
Real time usage: 0.248 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 998/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 74919/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 10504/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 19/40
Expensive parser function count: 9/500
Lua time usage: 0.077/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 2.89 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
187.698
1 - -total
68.57%
128.714
6 - Template:Ambox
52.81%
99.131
1 - Template:Multiple_issues
27.42%
51.475
1 - Template:Reflist
22.87%
42.931
4 - Template:Cite_web
17.13%
32.157
1 - Template:Cleanup
11.16%
20.944
1 - Template:More_footnotes
10.16%
19.062
1 - Template:Sustainability
9.40%
17.640
1 - Template:Category_handler
9.06%
17.000
1 - Template:Navbox
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1721470-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161117222839 and revision id 748934914
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sustainable_urban_infrastructure&oldid=748934914"
Categories: Urban planningSustainability by subjectEnvironmental designInfrastructureHidden categories: CS1 errors: external linksArticles lacking in-text citations from July 2008All articles lacking in-text citationsArticles needing cleanup from September 2008All articles needing cleanupCleanup tagged articles without a reason field from September 2008Wikipedia pages needing cleanup from September 2008Articles needing additional references from June 2007All articles needing additional referencesArticles that may contain original research from March 2015All articles that may contain original researchArticles to be expanded from March 2013All articles to be expandedArticles with empty sections from March 2013All articles with empty sectionsArticles using small message boxes