Tankertruck
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Tanker truck)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}Not to be confused with Tank transporter, Gas van, or Tanker (ship).
Japanese tank truck
A Shell Jet A refueller tank truck on the ramp at Vancouver International Airport
B double tanker
A petroleum tanker truck in Bolivia
1960 Peterbilt 281 tanker truck from Steven Spielberg's 1971 film Duel
GAZ-53 tanker truck in Karachayevsk, Northern Caucasus
A tank truck or tanker truck[1] (United States usage) or tanker (United Kingdom usage), is a motor vehicle designed to carry liquefied loads, dry bulk cargo or gases on roads. The largest such vehicles are similar to railroad tank cars which are also designed to carry liquefied loads. Many variants exist due to the wide variety of liquids that can be transported. Tank trucks tend to be large; they may be insulated or non-insulated; pressurized or non-pressurized; and designed for single or multiple loads (often by means of internal divisions in their tank). Some are semi-trailer trucks. They are difficult to drive due to their high center of gravity.
Contents
1 Size and volume
2 Common large tank trucks
3 Common small tank trucks
4 See also
5 References
6 External links
Size and volume[edit]
Tank trucks are described by their size or volume capacity. Large trucks typically have capacities ranging from 5,500 to 11,600 US gallons (20,800 to 43,900L; 4,580 to 9,660impgal). In Australia, road trains up to three cars long (known as A-Triple tankers) carry loads in excess of 100,000 L. Longer road trains transporting liquids are also in use.
A tank truck is distinguished by its shape, usually a cylindrical tank upon the vehicle lying horizontally. Some less visible distinctions amongst tank trucks have to do with their intended use: compliance with human food regulations, refrigeration capability, acid resistance, pressurization capability, and more. The tanks themselves will almost always contain multiple compartments or baffles to prevent load movement destabilizing the vehicle.
Common large tank trucks[edit]
Large tank trucks are used for example to transport gasoline to filling stations. They also transport a wide variety of liquid goods such as liquid sugar, molasses, milk, wine, juices, water, gasoline, diesel, and industrial chemicals.
Tank trucks are constructed of various materials depending on what products they are hauling. These materials include aluminium, carbon steel, stainless steel, and fiberglass reinforced plastic (FRP).
Some tank trucks are able to carry multiple products at once due to compartmentalization of the tank into 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or in some rare cases more tank compartments. This allows for an increased number of delivery options. These trucks are commonly used to carry different grades of gasoline to service stations to carry all products needed in one trip.
Common small tank trucks[edit]
Milk sold from a tank truck, Kstovo, Russia.
Watering of plants from a tank truck in Bonifacio Global City, Metro Manila, Philippines.
Smaller tank trucks, with a capacity of less than 3,000 US gallons (11,000L; 2,500impgal) are typically used to deal with light liquid cargo within a local community. A common example is a septic service truck used to vacuum clean several septic tanks and then deliver the septic material to a collection site. These tank trucks typically have a maximum capacity of 3,000 US gallons (11,000L; 2,500impgal). They are equipped with a pumping system to serve their particular need.
Another common use is to deliver fuel such as liquified petroleum gas (LPG) to households, commerces and industries. The smallest of these trucks usually carry about 1,000 US gallons (3,800L; 830impgal) of LPG under pressure. Typically LPG tank trucks carry up to 3499 US gallons of product (usually liquid propane), on a 2 axle bobtail truck. 3500 US gallons (13,200 L; 2,900 imp gal) and greater requires a 3 axle truck (tank wagon).
Tank trucks are also used to fuel aircraft at airports.
See also[edit]
Trucks portal
Bowser (tanker)
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA)
Semi-trailer truck
Tank cars
Tank chassis
Tanktainers
Dodge Airflow truck
The Terminator
References[edit]
^ James Hinckley, Jon Robinson The big book of car culture: the armchair guide to automotive ... 2005 p253 "But like so many aspects of our auto culture that were once viewed with excitement, the tanker truck is now simply taken for granted. By the 1930s the gasoline tanker truck had become an important part of an oil company's image."
External links[edit]
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Tank trucks.
Driving Tank Trucks for a Living
v
t
e
Transport of hydrocarbon fuels
Oil
Oil tanker
Oil terminal
Tank car
Tank truck
List of oil pipelines
LNG and LPG
LNG carrier
Regasification
Liquefaction
Gas separation
Natural gas storage
Black powder in gas pipelines
List of natural gas pipelines
List of LNG terminals
Coal/Misc.
Industrial railway
Intermodal freight transport
Syngas
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:2863776-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161110084300 and revision id 748774303
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tank_truck&oldid=748774303"
Categories: TrucksTank trucksPetroleum transportFuel containersMilk transportHidden categories: Commons category with local link same as on Wikidata