TheCarbonTrust
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from The Carbon Trust)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (June 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Carbon Trust
Independent Experts with a mission to accelerate the move to a low carbon economy
Type
Not for Dividend Private Company Limited by Guarantee
Industry
Carbon management and reduction
Founded
2001
Headquarters
London, United Kingdom
Key people
Tom Delay (CEO)
James Smith (chairman)
Michael Rea (COO)
Website
www.carbontrust.com
The Carbon Trust is a not-for-dividend company that helps organisations and companies reduce their carbon emissions and become more resource efficient. Its stated mission is to accelerate the move to a sustainable, low carbon economy. It reinvests surpluses from its group commercial activities into its mission.
The Carbon Trust helps companies and organisations reduce carbon emissions and increase resource efficiency through providing specialist help, support and advice. As of December 2014 the Carbon Trust had saved its customers 5.5bn in costs and 60MtCO2.[1] It operates globally and has offices in U.K., China, Mexico, South Africa, Brazil and United States. It is also active in many other countries including South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Namibia, Peru, Chile and Panama.
Contents
1 Services
1.1 Business advice
1.2 Carbon footprinting, verification and Carbon Trust standard
1.3 Developing clean technology
1.4 Policy and Markets
2 Carbon footprinting, verification and Carbon Trust standard
2.1 Carbon Trust standards
2.2 Carbon footprint label
3 Funds and financing
4 Subsidiary companies
5 Staff
6 References
7 External links
Services[edit]
Business advice[edit]
The Carbon Trust looks at current and future sustainability challenges and works with business and organisations to develop sustainable strategies to deliver savings.[2]
Carbon footprinting, verification and Carbon Trust standard[edit]
The Carbon Trust provides voluntary carbon certification services and carbon labelling schemes  it verifies organisation and product carbon footprint data and provides marks of quality to organisations to demonstrate standards have been met.
From February 2013 the Carbon Trust introduced the water standard to go alongside its carbon standard.[3] In November 2013 it announced the launch of the world's first international standard for organisational waste reduction.[4] In 2015 it launched the Carbon Trust Supply Chain Standard to look at carbon footprints across the supply chain.
Developing clean technology[edit]
The Carbon Trust works with governments, innovators and corporates with the aim of accelerating the commercialisation of low carbon technologies, and leads projects to deliver commercial partnerships and develop low carbon technologies.[5] It is particularly active in the areas of offshore wind, marine energy, fuel cell development and industrial energy efficiency. One such project is the Offshore Wind Accelerator, which is aimed at reducing the cost of wind power through projects focused in the North Sea. The Offshore Wind Accelerator is a partnership between industry and governments.[6]
Policy and Markets[edit]
The Carbon Trust provides analysis on sustainability issues to help businesses, investors and policy makers with their roles in reducing carbon and saving energy.[7] It works with companies and governments across the world and is presently developing a range of policy and market focused projects including in Mexico, South Africa, Scotland, Brazil and the United Kingdom.
Carbon footprinting, verification and Carbon Trust standard[edit]
Carbon Trust standards[edit]
The Carbon Trust runs a series of environmental standards that certify measurement and reduction. Currently these cover carbon, water and waste and have been awarded to hundreds of leading companies and organisations across the world.
In June 2008 the Carbon Trust introduced the Carbon Trust Carbon Standard to address what it describes as business greenwash.[8] The Carbon Trust Carbon Standard is only awarded to companies and organisations who measure and reduce their carbon emissions year on year.[9] Examples of organisations who hold the Carbon Standard include Sky, Aldi, Eurotunnel, Bupa, Pricewaterhousecoopers, Samsung Electronics, Angus Council, Capital & Regional, O2, RWE npower, Credit Suisse, Scottish Government and the UK DECC.
In February 2013 the Carbon Trust introduced the Carbon Trust Water Standard to recognise those companies reducing their water use year on year. The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca Cola Enterprises Ltd, Sunlight Services Group, and Branston.[10]
In July 2013 the Carbon Trust introuduced the Carbon Trust Waste Standard.[11] In November 2013 the waste standard was awarded to the first wave of organisations, which included the Football Association, Renishaw plc, Whitbread, Pricewaterhousecoopers and AkzoNobel Decorative Paints. These last three became the first in the world to gain the triple crown of reaching the carbon, water and waste standard.
In 2015 the Carbon Trust launched the Carbon Trust Supply Chain Standard to look at carbon footprints across the supply chain. It is the worlds first independent certification for organisations that are measuring, managing and reducing greenhouse gas (CO2e) emissions in their supply chains.
In 2016 the Carbon Trust launched the Carbon Trust Zero Waste to Landfill Standard.
Carbon footprint label[edit]
The Carbon Trust helps companies to measure the carbon emissions associated with their products (embodied emissions) and also provides a label for these products carbon footprint. Measuring the embodied emissions of products enables reductions to be identified and achieved across the supply chain. The label demonstrates a commitment by the product owner to reduce that footprint every two years. The Carbon Reduction Label was introduced in the UK in March 2007.[12]
Examples of products that have featured their carbon footprint are Kingsmill bread, Walkers Crisps, a range of own brand products in Tesco supermarkets, Halifax (HBOS) bank accounts, Dyson airblades, Marshalls building products, Quaker oats, Silver Spoon sugar, Tate & Lyle sugar, Lafarge cement, Quorn foods and Pompeian Olive Oil.
The standards behind carbon labelling are now formally recognised through the PAS 2050 developed by the Carbon Trust in conjunction with BSI and Defra. This methodology is now gaining international acceptance following its launch in October 2008.[13]
Funds and financing[edit]
The Carbon Trust also supports the development and deployment of low carbon technologies and is actively engaged in the fuel cell, wave energy, wind energy, solar energy, biomass and biofuels sectors. It has a particularly active role in the Offshore Wind sector through its Offshore Wind Accelerator programme.[14]
It is involved in a number of finance schemes  including an Energy efficiency financing scheme across the UK in partnership with Siemens Financial Services worth around 550 million[15] and interest-free loans for small and medium-sized enterprises available for energy-efficient equipment in Northern Ireland, in conjunction with Invest Northern Ireland.
In April 2016 it launched its Green Business Fund offering a range of services for SMEs in Great Britain including up to 10,000 towards buying energy efficient equipment.
Subsidiary companies[edit]
The Carbon Trust has created a number of successful subsidiary companies such as Partnership for Renewables which develops renewable energy on public sector land and Low Carbon Workplace which funds and develops the low carbon refurbishment of buildings; and Future Blends which converts biomass to transport fuel.
Staff[edit]
The chief executive is Tom Delay, who came to the trust after a career with energy company Shell and management consultancies.[16]
The chairman is James Smith, formerly Chairman of Shell UK.[16]
The chief operating officer is Michael Rea, formerly of management consultancy McKinsey.[16]
Business heads are: Gina V Hall, Investment Director; Hugh Jones, managing director of Business Services; Darran Messem, managing director of certification services; Stefania Omassoli, Business Development; Richard Rugg, managing director of Programmes; James Wilde, Director of Policy and Innovations.[17]
References[edit]
^ "Accelerating the move to a sustainable, low carbon economy  The Carbon Trust Annual Report 2013/14". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 22 December 2014.
^ "Business Advice". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Carbon Trust launches scheme to tackle water waste". BBC. 19 February 2013. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ "Carbon Trust launches world's first waste standard". GreenWise. 5 November 2013. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Innovation". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Offshore Wind Accelerator". Retrieved 18 November 2013.
^ "Policy and markets". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Carbon Trust aims to end 'greenwash' by launching company standard". The Guardian. 24 June 2008. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Carbon standard 'to renew trust'". BBC. 24 June 2008. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Carbon Trust urges business to wake up to water waste". The Carbon Trust. 9 February 2013. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ "Carbon Trust to take on waste". The Carbon Trust. 3 July 2013. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "UK carbon label goods sales 'pass 2bn-a-year mark'". BBC. 13 October 2010. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ "UKAS Awards First Accreditation for Product Greenhouse Gas Assessment". United Kingdom Accreditation Service. 7 June 2010. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ "Offshore Wind Accelerator". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ "The Carbon Trust and Siemens launch new green finance deal worth 550 million to green businesses in the UK". Siemens UK. 4 March 2011. Retrieved 18 March 2013.
^ a b c "Our Board". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
^ "Our Experts". The Carbon Trust. Retrieved 6 November 2013.
External links[edit]
Carbon Trust official website
Partnership for Renewables
Low Carbon Workplace
Introduction to the Carbon Trust, presentation in the California Air Resources Board's Air Pollution Seminar Series.
The Carbon Trust profile on database of Market Governance Mechanisms
v
t
e
Energy in the United Kingdom
Companies
Coal
Anglo American
Asia Energy
BHP Billiton
ENRC
Glencore
Rio Tinto
UK Coal
Oil and gas
Integrated
BG Group
BP
Royal Dutch Shell
Exploration and
production
Afren
BHP Billiton
Cairn Energy
Centrica
Dana Petroleum
Desire Petroleum
Emerald Energy
EnQuest
Essar Energy
Falkland Oil and Gas
Hardy Oil and Gas
JKX Oil & Gas
Melrose Resources
Ophir Energy
Perenco
Premier Oil
Regal Petroleum
Rockhopper Exploration
SOCO International
Star Energy
Tullow Oil
Supply
Greenergy
Murco Petroleum
Support
Abbot Group
AMEC
Ensco
Expro
Hunting
Petrofac
Qserv
Score Group
Weir Group
WesternGeco1
Wood Group
Utilities
Generation and
supply
Integrated
Centrica
EDF Energy1
E.ON UK1
RWE npower1
Scottish Power1
SSE
Generation
Drax Group
Falck Renewables
Horizon Nuclear Power1
International Power
Vattenfall United Kingdom1
Vedanta Resources
Supply
The Co-operative Energy
Ecotricity
ESB International
Extra Energy
Firmus Energy
First Utility
Good Energy
Green Energy
LoCO2 Energy
Opus Energy
Ovo Energy
Phoenix Natural Gas
Telecom Plus
Distribution
Electricity
Electricity North West1
Northern Powergrid1
SP Energy Networks1
SSE Power Distribution
UK Power Networks1
Western Power Distribution1
Gas
Firmus Energy
National Grid
Northern Gas Networks
Phoenix Natural Gas
SGN
Wales & West Utilities1
Transmission
Electricity
National Grid2
Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission
SP Energy Networks1
Gas
National Grid
Other
Aggreko
APX Group
Aquamarine Power
Ecogen
EnServe
Geothermal Engineering
Hi-Gen Power
Mark Group
Wavegen
Companies with headquarters and/or registered office in the UK but no applicable energy operations within the country shown in italics 1Ultimate parent company is not UK-based 2Integrated in the United States, no generation or supply activities in the UK
Energy sources
Coal
Coal Authority
Coal-fired power stations
Coal mines
Coal mining regions
Confederation of UK Coal Producers
Greenhouse gas emissions
History (Miners' strike
National Coal Board)
Open-pit coal mining
Electricity
Association of Electricity Producers
BritNed
EastWest Interconnector
Energy switching services
Economy 7
Economy 10
Electricity billing
Green electricity
Grid Trade Master Agreement
HVDC Cross-Channel
HVDC Moyle
HVDC NorwayUK
Isle of Man to England Interconnector
National Grid
Control
Reserve Service
New Electricity Trading Arrangements
Power stations
Timeline of the electricity supply industry
Nuclear
Advanced gas-cooled reactor
FrancoBritish Nuclear Forum
Magnox
National Nuclear Laboratory
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority
Nuclear Liabilities Fund
Nuclear power stations
Office for Nuclear Regulation
Sellafield
United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
Oil and gas
BBL Pipeline
Dash for Gas
Forties pipeline system
Fuel protests
Gas infrastructure
Greenhouse gas emissions
Hydrocarbon oil duty
Oil and Gas Authority
National Transmission System
Natural gas fields
Natural gas-fired power stations
North Sea oil
Oil & Gas UK
Oil fields
Oil-fired power stations
Oil infrastructure
Oil refineries
Petroleum revenue tax
Renewables
Biofuels
Biodiesel
Biofuel power stations
National Non-Food Crops Centre
Renewable Fuels Agency
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation
Geothermal
Geothermal power stations
Hydroelectricity
Hydroelectric power stations
Severn Barrage
Wave farms
Solar power
Wind power
List of offshore wind farms
List of onshore wind farms
North Sea Offshore Grid
Wind power in Scotland
Government and regulation
Organisations
Carbon Trust
Cenex
Committee on Climate Change
Department of Energy and Climate Change
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Energy Saving Trust
Environment Agency
Office of Gas and Electricity Markets
Legislation and
initiatives
Carbon Emission Reduction Target
Climate Change Act 2008
Climate Change Agreement
Climate Change Levy
Climate Change and Sustainable Energy Act 2006
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme
Display Energy Certificate
Energy Act 2013
Energy Performance Certificate
Fossil Fuel Levy
Low Carbon Building Programme
National Industrial Symbiosis Programme
Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation
Planning Act 2008
Renewable Heat Incentive
Renewables Obligation
United Kingdom Climate Change Programme
Non-governmental organisations
Charities and
pressure groups
Ashden Award
BioRegional
Campaign against Climate Change
Centre for Alternative Technology
National Energy Action
Stop Climate Chaos
Tyndall Centre
Industry bodies
Combined Heat and Power Association
Energy Institute
Energy Networks Association
Energy Retail Association
Green Power Forum
RenewableUK
Utilities Intermediaries Association
Research
Centre for Renewable Energy Systems Technology
Energy Technologies Institute
Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research
NaREC
Oil Depletion Analysis Centre
UK Energy Research Centre
Energy conservation
Association for the Conservation of Energy
British Energy Efficiency Federation
Close the Door campaign
Code for Sustainable Homes
Double Glazing & Conservatory Ombudsman Scheme
EcoHomes
Energy efficiency in British housing
Energy Saving Trust (Energy Saving Trust Recommended)
Greenhouse gas emissions
HTB
National Home Energy Rating
Category
Commons
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1505330-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161116205854 and revision id 748725138
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carbon_Trust&oldid=748725138"
Categories: Carbon financeDepartment of Energy and Climate ChangePrivate companies limited by guarantee of the United KingdomHidden categories: Articles needing additional references from June 2013All articles needing additional referencesUse dmy dates from October 2014Pages using deprecated image syntax