UniversalMeteringInterface
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Universal Metering Interface)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
This article has multiple issues. Please help improve it or discuss these issues on the talk page. (Learn how and when to remove these template messages)
The topic of this article may not meet Wikipedia's notability guidelines for companies and organizations. Please help to establish notability by citing reliable secondary sources that are independent of the topic and provide significant coverage of it beyond its mere trivial mention. If notability cannot be established, the article is likely to be merged, redirected, or deleted.
Find sources:"Cambridge Consultants"news newspapers books scholar JSTOR free images (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
(Learn how and when to remove this template message)
A major contributor to this article appears to have a close connection with its subject. It may require cleanup to comply with Wikipedia's content policies, particularly neutral point of view. Please discuss further on the talk page. (August 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Cambridge Consultants
Type
Private (Private company)
Industry
Product Developers and Technology Consultants
Founded
1960
Headquarters
Cambridge, United Kingdom
Boston, Massachusetts, United States
Number of employees
540
Website
www.cambridgeconsultants.com
Cambridge Consultants is a global product development and technology consultancy firm. It provides outsourced research and development services to start-ups and blue-chip multinationals that develop products.
Contents
1 History
2 Current business
3 Offices and facilities
4 Awards
5 References
6 Further reading
7 External links
History[edit]
Founded in 1960 by three Cambridge graduates  Tim Eiloart,[1] Rodney Dale, and David Southward  to "put the brains of Cambridge University at the disposal of the problems of British industry and to provide solutions to real world problems,"[2] Cambridge Consultants was one of the UK's first technology transfer businesses. The early work laid the foundations for what is now known as the Cambridge Phenomenon or Silicon Fen. Indeed, most of the high-tech companies in and around the city of Cambridge can trace their roots back to either Cambridge University or Cambridge Consultants.[3]
Initially, the company was privately run. In January 1972, it became part of Arthur D. Little (ADL), an American management consultancy firm, gaining professional management support and access to international markets. Cambridge Consultants remained part of Arthur D Little until 2001. In 2002, the management team at Cambridge Consultants acquired the company, backed by Altran, Europe's largest technology consultancy, following ADL's process through Chapter 11.
Despite the early difficulties witnessed by many technology companies at the turn of the millennium, Cambridge Consultants continued to grow. This included the launch of a US office in Boston in September 2004.
In April 2013, the company announced its expansion into Asia, with the opening of an office in Singapore.[4] The new office has been set up to deliver product development capabilities to the Asian market and build on existing clients based in countries such as Australia and Japan as well as Singapore.[4]
Having grown year on year over the past decade, Cambridge Consultants is looking to increase its global workforce to 600 by the end of 2016.
The current CEO of Cambridge Consultants is Alan Richardson, first appointed in July 2012.[5]
On June 16, the company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Synapse, a product development company based in Seattle.[6]
Current business[edit]
Cambridge Consultants' work spans a range of different industry sectors.
Within the medical technology industry, it has the capability to develop products and technology for drug delivery (respiratory, transdermal, injection, etc.), clinical diagnostics and life science instrumentation (both lab-based and point-of-care devices), surgical and interventional devices, wireless medical technology (both inside and outside the body) and provide medical business consulting services.
It acts as an independent partner for advice, ideas and the rapid development of wireless products and technology.[7] The company has one of the world's largest independent wireless product development teams combined with state-of-the-art labs and extensive intellectual property and expertise. Through the development of chips to complete products, Cambridge Consultants is active in the majority of wireless technologies available today, from satellite and WiMAX to ZigBee, UWB and NFC. It is responsible for many 'world firsts' in wireless communication, including:
The first single-chip Bluetooth device, which was spun out to create Cambridge Silicon Radio (CSR plc), now the market leader in Bluetooth chips
Innovative product development and technology consultancy services are also provided. Application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and field-programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) are also developed. Many of the ASIC projects undertaken make use of its own XAP processor core. Projects it has been involved in include an advanced handheld through-wall radar, and the open standard Universal Metering Interface (UMI) for smart metering.
Cambridge Consultants as a technology consultant advises companies on market strategy, transaction support and innovation management, especially where complex technology is involved. Consultants and analysts carry out technical and commercial due diligence for clients around the world, and provide expert reports for companies listed on the UK stock market.
Offices and facilities[edit]
Cambridge Consultants building in the Cambridge Science Park in April 2011.
As of 2015, the company employs of around 500 staff including engineers, scientists, mathematicians, consultants, analysts and support staff in Cambridge (UK), Boston (USA) and Singapore.
In-house facilities include:
100,000 sq ft of development laboratories in Cambridge(UK) and Cambridge(MA)
design studios and virtual prototyping tools
advanced proprietary software development tools
advanced specialist laboratories such as optics, radar, radio and life sciences
secure facilities for confidential projects
rapid prototyping facilities including a machine shop with CNC, electronic production, fabrication and low-volume production capability
a proprietary document management system
integrated management systems embracing safety, health, environment and quality, certified to ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 13485 and TickIT (software) by BSI
Awards[edit]
In 2013, the company was named Employer of the Year in the Cambridge News Business Excellence Awards.[8]
Since 2014, the company has achieved a place in The Sunday Times 100 Best Mid-Sized Companies to Work For.[9]
References[edit]
^ "Altruistic city pioneer passes away, aged 72". Cambridge-news.co.uk. 2009-03-17. Retrieved 2013-08-21.
^ Jeanette Walker, Cambridge: Europe's leading location for biotechnology, Drug Discovery Today 10(14), 956-959, 2005.
^ Yupar Myint, CfEL "The effect of social capital in new venture creation: the Cambridge high-technology cluster", Journal of Strategic Change, 21 June 2005
^ a b "Asia office opens for business". Cambridge Consultants. April 16, 2013. Retrieved August 11, 2015.
^ "Alan Richardson". Cambridge Consultants. Retrieved August 11, 2015.
^ "Cambridge Consultants acquires Synapse". Cambridge Consultants. June 16, 2016. Retrieved June 18, 2016.
^ "Innovative Wireless Communications".
^ "Cambridge News Business Excellence Awards". Cambridge-news.co.uk. 2013-04-08. Retrieved 2013-08-21.
^ "The Sunday Times 100 Best Mid-Sized Companies to Work For".
Further reading[edit]
Dale, Rodney (1979) From Ram Yard to Milton Hilton: A History of Cambridge Consultants Ltd, 1960-1979, 36 pp.Cambridge: Cambridge Consultants Ltd
Dale, Rodney (2010) From Ram Yard to Milton Hilton: Cambridge Consultants - the early years, 120 pp. Haddenham, Cambridgeshire: Fern House Publishing, ISBN 978-1-902702-24-7
External links[edit]
Official website
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:1024937-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161110074540 and revision id 739565355
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cambridge_Consultants&oldid=739565355#Current_business"
Categories: Companies based in CambridgeCompanies established in 1960Innovation consulting firmsTechnology companies of the United Kingdom1960 establishments in EnglandHidden categories: Articles with topics of unclear notability from August 2015All articles with topics of unclear notabilityWikipedia articles with possible conflicts of interest from August 2015Pages using deprecated image syntax