Vegetableoilusedasfuel
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
(Redirected from Vegetable oil used as fuel)
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}
Waste vegetable oil which has been filtered.
Vegetable oil can be used as an alternative fuel in diesel engines and in heating oil burners. When vegetable oil is used directly as a fuel, in either modified or unmodified equipment, it is referred to as straight vegetable oil (SVO) or pure plant oil (PPO). Conventional diesel engines can be modified to help ensure that the viscosity of the vegetable oil is low enough to allow proper atomization of the fuel. This prevents incomplete combustion, which would damage the engine by causing a build-up of carbon. Straight vegetable oil can also be blended with conventional diesel or processed into biodiesel or bioliquids for use under a wider range of conditions.
Contents
1 History
2 Application and usability
2.1 Modified fuel systems
2.2 Unmodified indirect injection engines
2.3 Vegetable oil blending
2.4 Home heating
2.4.1 Combined heat and power
3 Properties
3.1 Material compatibility
3.2 Temperature effects
4 Availability
4.1 Recycled vegetable oil
4.2 Virgin vegetable oil
5 Legal implications
5.1 Taxation of fuel
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
History[edit]
Rudolf Diesel
Rudolf Diesel was the father of the engine which bears his name. His first attempts were to design an engine to run on coal dust, but later designed his engine to run on vegetable oil. The idea, he hoped, would make his engines more attractive to farmers having a source of fuel readily available. In a 1912 presentation to the British Institute of Mechanical Engineers, he cited a number of efforts in this area and remarked, "The fact that fat oils from vegetable sources can be used may seem insignificant today, but such oils may perhaps become in course of time of the same importance as some natural mineral oils and the tar products are now."[1]
Periodic petroleum shortages spurred research into vegetable oil as a diesel substitute during the 1930s and 1940s, and again in the 1970s and early 1980s when straight vegetable oil enjoyed its highest level of scientific interest. The 1970s also saw the formation of the first commercial enterprise to allow consumers to run straight vegetable oil in their automobiles, Elsbett of Germany. In the 1990s Bougainvillea conflict, islanders cut off from oil supplies due to a blockade used coconut oil to fuel their vehicles.[2]
Application and usability[edit]
Modified fuel systems[edit]
Most diesel car engines are suitable for the use of straight vegetable oil (SVO), also commonly called pure plant oil (PPO), with certain modifications. Principally, the viscosity and surface tension of the SVO/PPO must be reduced by preheating it, typically by using waste heat from the engine or electricity, otherwise poor atomization, incomplete combustion and carbonization may result. One common solution is to add a heat exchanger and an additional fuel tank for the petrodiesel or biodiesel blend and to switch between this additional tank and the main tank of SVO/PPO. The engine is started on diesel, switched over to vegetable oil as soon as it is warmed up and switched back to diesel shortly before being switched off to ensure that no vegetable oil remains in the engine or fuel lines when it is started from cold again. In colder climates it is often necessary to heat the vegetable oil fuel lines and tank as it can become very viscous and even solidify.
Single tank conversions have been developed, largely in Germany, which have been used throughout Europe. These conversions are designed to provide reliable operation with rapeseed oil that meets the German rapeseed oil fuel standard DIN 51605. Modifications to the engines cold start regime assist combustion on start up and during the engine warm up phase. Suitably modified indirect injection (IDI) engines have proven to be operable with 100% PPO down to temperatures of 10C (14F). Direct injection (DI) engines generally have to be preheated with a block heater or diesel fired heater. The exception is the VW Tdi (Turbocharged Direct Injection) engine for which a number of German companies offer single tank conversions. For long term durability it has been found necessary to increase the oil change frequency and to pay increased attention to engine maintenance.
Unmodified indirect injection engines[edit]
Many cars powered by indirect injection engines supplied by in-line injection pumps, or mechanical Bosch injection pumps are capable of running on pure SVO/PPO in all but winter temperatures. Indirect injection Mercedes-Benz vehicles with in-line injection pumps and cars featuring the PSA XUD engine tend to perform reasonably, especially as the latter is normally equipped with a coolant heated fuel filter. Engine reliability would depend on the condition of the engine. Attention to maintenance of the engine, particularly of the fuel injectors, cooling system and glow plugs will help to provide longevity. Ideally the engine would be converted.[3]
Vegetable oil blending[edit]
The relatively high kinematic viscosity of vegetable oils must be reduced to make them compatible with conventional compression-ignition engines and fuel systems. Cosolvent blending is a low-cost and easy-to-adapt technology that reduces viscosity by diluting the vegetable oil with a low-molecular-weight solvent.[4] This blending, or "cutting", has been done with diesel fuel, kerosene, and gasoline, amongst others; however, opinions vary as to the efficacy of this. Noted problems include higher rates of wear and failure in fuel pumps and piston rings when using blends.[3]
Home heating[edit]
Main article: Bioliquids
When liquid fuels made from biomass are used for energy purposes other than transport, they are called bioliquids.[5]
With often minimal modification, most residential furnaces and boilers that are designed to burn No. 2 heating oil can be made to burn either biodiesel or filtered, preheated waste vegetable oil (WVO). If cleaned at home by the consumer, WVO can result in considerable savings. Many restaurants will receive a minimal amount for their used cooking oil, and processing to biodiesel is fairly simple and inexpensive. Burning filtered WVO directly is somewhat more problematic, since it is much more viscous; nonetheless, its burning can be accomplished with suitable preheating. WVO can thus be an economical heating option for those with the necessary mechanical and experimental aptitude.
Combined heat and power[edit]
A number of companies offer compressed ignition engine generators optimized to run on plant oils where the waste engine heat is recovered for heating.
Properties[edit]
The main form of SVO/PPO used in the UK is rapeseed oil (also known as canola oil, primarily in the United States and Canada) which has a freezing point of 10C (14F).[citation needed] However the use of sunflower oil, which gels at around 12C (10F),[6] is currently being investigated as a means of improving cold weather starting. Unfortunately oils with lower gelling points tend to be less saturated (leading to a higher iodine number) and polymerize more easily in the presence of atmospheric oxygen.
Material compatibility[edit]
Polymerization also has been consequentially linked to catastrophic component failures such as injection pump shaft seizure and breakage, injector tip failure leading to various and/or combustion chamber components damaged. Most metallurgical problems such as corrosion and electrolysis are related to water based contamination or poor choices of plumbing (such as copper or Zinc) which can cause gelling- even with petroleum based fuels.
Temperature effects[edit]
Some Pacific island nations are using coconut oil as fuel to reduce their expenses and their dependence on imported fuels while helping stabilize the coconut oil market. Coconut oil is only usable where temperatures do not drop below 17 degrees Celsius (63 degrees Fahrenheit), unless two-tank SVO/PPO kits or other tank-heating accessories, etc. are used. Fortunately, the same techniques developed to use, for example, canola and other oils in cold climates can be implemented to make coconut oil usable in temperatures lower than 17 degrees Celsius (63 degrees Fahrenheit)
Availability[edit]
Recycled vegetable oil[edit]
Main article: Yellow grease
Recycled vegetable oil, also termed used vegetable oil (UVO), waste vegetable oil (WVO), used cooking oil (UCO),[7] or yellow grease (in commodities exchange), is recovered from businesses and industry that use the oil for cooking.
As of 2000[update], the United States was producing in excess of 11 billion liters (2.9 billion U.S. gallons) of recycled vegetable oil annually, mainly from industrial deep fryers in potato processing plants, snack food factories and fast food restaurants. If all those 11 billion liters could be recycled and used to replace the energy equivalent amount of petroleum (an ideal case), almost 1% of US oil consumption could be offset.[8] Use of used vegetable oil as a direct fuel competes with some other uses of the commodity, which has effects on its price as a fuel and increases its cost as an input to the other uses as well.
Virgin vegetable oil[edit]
Virgin vegetable oil, also termed pure plant oil or straight vegetable oil, is extracted from plants solely for use as fuel. In contrast to used vegetable oil, is not a byproduct of other industries, and thus its prospects for use as fuel are not limited by the capacities of other industries.[citation needed] Production of vegetable oils for use as fuels is theoretically limited only by the agricultural capacity of a given economy. However, doing so detracts from the supply of other uses of pure vegetable oil.
Legal implications[edit]
Taxation of fuel[edit]
Taxation on SVO/PPO as a road fuel varies from country to country, and it is possible the revenue departments in many countries are even unaware of its use, or feel it too insignificant to legislate. Germany used to have 0% taxation, resulting in it being a leader in most developments of the fuel use. However SVO/PPO as a road fuel began to be taxed at 0,09 /liter from 1 January 2008 in Germany, with incremental rises up to 0,45 /liter by 2012. However, in Australia it has become illegal to produce any fuel if it is to be sold unless a license to do so is granted by the federal government. This is a chargeable offense with a fine of up to 20,000 dollars but this bracket may alter circumstantially. Also a jail term may result if offenders are aware of the illegality of selling the fuel.
See also[edit]
Sustainable development portal
Bioliquids
Biodiesel by region
Civic amenity site; collection point for WVO[9][10]
Food vs fuel
Greasestock
The Big Green Bus
Cooking oil
Vegetable oils as alternative energy
Vegetable oil recycling
Yellow grease
Gutter oil(oil drainage or brown grease)
References[edit]
^ Knothe, Gerhard (2001). "Historical Perspectives on Vegetable Oil-Based Diesel Fuels" (PDF). Inform. 12 (11): 11031107. Retrieved 2009-06-24.
^ The Coconut Revolution at the Internet Movie Database (2000) a documentary film
^ a b Pacific Islands Applied Geoscience Commission: "Coconut Oil Fuel Research in the Republic of the Marshall Islands"
^ Dunn, R. O. (2008). "Low-Temperature Flow Properties of Vegetable Oil/Cosolvent Blend Diesel Fuels" (PDF). ddr.nal.usda.gov. Retrieved 23 April 2011.
^ Renewable Energy Association 2009 Handbook
^ Gregg, Forest. "Fuel Properties of Various Oils and Fats". Retrieved 2009-12-04.
^ Kotrba, Ron (September 23, 2014). "IncBio contracted to supply 2.4 MMgy biodiesel plant to Greece". Biodiesel Magazine. Retrieved 11 October 2014.
^ See Greenhouse gas emissions by the United States
^ Civic amenity site as collection point for WVO ref 1
^ Civic amenity site as collection point for WVO ref 2
External links[edit]
Vegetable oil fuels at DMOZ
Vegetable-Oil Engine at HowStuffWorks
Open Biofuel Engine Conversion/Development
Bio-oil CHP is booming!
v
t
e
Bioenergy
Biofuels
Alcohol
Algae fuel
Bagasse
Babassu oil
Biobutanol
Biodiesel
Biogas
Biogasoline
Corn stover
Ethanol
cellulosic
mixtures
Methanol
Stover
Corn stover
Straw
Cooking oil
Vegetable oil
Water hyacinth
Wood gas
Energy from
foodstock
Barley
Cassava
Grape
Hemp
Maize
Oat
Palm oil
Potato
Rapeseed
Rice
Sorghum bicolor
Soybean
Sugarcane
Sugar beet
Sunflower
Wheat
Yam
Camelina sativa
Non-food
energy crops
Arundo
Big bluestem
Camelina
Chinese tallow
Duckweed
Jatropha curcas
Millettia pinnata
Miscanthus giganteus
Switchgrass
Wood fuel
Technology
BECCS
Bioconversion
Biomass heating systems
Biorefinery
FischerTropsch process
Industrial biotechnology
Pellets
mill
stove
Thermal depolymerization
Concepts
Cellulosic ethanol commercialization
Energy content of biofuel
Energy crop
Energy forestry
EROEI
Food vs. fuel
Issues
Sustainable biofuel
v
t
e
Palm oil
Oil palms
Attalea
A. maripa
Elaeis
E. guineesis
E. oleifera
Diseases and
pests
Bagworm moth
Basal stem rot (Ganoderma orbiforme)
Cadang-cadang disease
Little leaf syndrome
Oryctes rhinoceros
Rhynchophorus palmarum
Oil palm bunch moth
Tirathaba mundella
Tirathaba rufivena
Red ring disease (Bursaphelenchus cocophilus)
Components
Mesocarp
Palm kernel
oil
lauric acid
Palm oil
stearin
stearic acid
linoleic acid
myristic acid
oleic acid
palmitic acid
Processes
Fractionation
Hydrolysis
Milling
Refining
Saponification
Transesterification
Products
Biodiesel
by region
NExBTL
Bioplastics
Cellulosic ethanol
Girl Scout Cookies
Oleochemicals
Vegetable oil
cooking
fuel
Organisations
Producers
Bumitama Agri
Cargill
Equatorial Palm Oil
Federal Global Ventures (FGV)
Feronia Inc.
IOI Group
Kuala Lumpur Kepong Berhad
Sime Darby
Wilmar International
Buyers/ processors
AAK
GreenPalm
Neste
Unilever
Governmental/
non-governmental
FELDA
The Forest Trust
Indonesia Commodity and Derivatives Exchange
Malaysia Derivatives Exchange
Malaysian Palm Oil Board
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil
Policies, impacts
and debates
Biodiesel impacts
Biofuel policy (Malaysia)
Biofuels issues
Certified sustainable palm oil
Deforestation
haze
Food vs. fuel
Social and environmental impacts
Vegetable oils as alternative energy
By country
Colombia
Indonesia
Malaysia
Portals: Agriculture
Energy
Food
Forestry
Category
by country
Commons
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:3588720-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161112181026 and revision id 740997701
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Vegetable_oil_fuel&oldid=740997701"
Categories: BiofuelsDIY cultureHidden categories: All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from November 2008Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2000All articles containing potentially dated statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2012Articles with DMOZ links