Wildlife
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For other uses, see Wildlife (disambiguation).
"Wild animals" redirects here. For the film, see Wild Animals.
Panthera tigris
Wildlife traditionally refers to undomesticated animal species, but has come to include all plants, fungi, and other organisms that grow or live wild in an area without being introduced by humans.[1]
Wildlife can be found in all ecosystems. Deserts, forests, rain forests, plains, grasslands, and other areas including the most developed urban sites, all have distinct forms of wildlife. While the term in popular culture usually refers to animals that are untouched by human factors,[2] most scientists agree that much wildlife is affected by human activities.
Humans have historically tended to separate civilization from wildlife in a number of ways including the legal, social, and moral sense. Some animals, however, have adapted to suburban environments. This includes such animals as domesticated cats, dogs, mice, and gerbils. Some religions declare certain animals to be sacred, and in modern times concern for the natural environment has provoked activists to protest against the exploitation of wildlife for human benefit or entertainment.
The global wildlife population has decreased by 52 percent between 1970 and 2014, according to a report by the World Wildlife Fund.[3]
Contents
1 Food, pets, and traditional medicines
2 Religion
3 Tourism
4 Destruction
4.1 Overkill
4.2 Habitat destruction and fragmentation
4.3 Impact of introduced species
4.4 Chains of extinction
5 Media
6 See also
7 References
Food, pets, and traditional medicines[edit]
See also: Wildlife trade
A mesh bag full of live frogs waiting for a buyer at Chiang Mai's Thanin market. Frog meat in Thailand is mostly used in stir-fries and Thai curries.
Anthropologists believe that the Stone Age people and hunter-gatherers relied on wildlife, both plants and animals, for their food. In fact, some species may have been hunted to extinction by early human hunters. Today, hunting, fishing, and gathering wildlife is still a significant food source in some parts of the world. In other areas, hunting and non-commercial fishing are mainly seen as a sport or recreation, with the edible meat as mostly a side benefit of it.[citation needed] Meat sourced from wildlife that is not traditionally regarded as game is known as bush meat. The increasing demand for wildlife as a source of traditional food in East Asia is decimating populations of sharks, primates, pangolins and other animals, which they believe have aphrodisiac properties.
In November 2008, almost 900 plucked and "oven-ready" owls and other protected wildlife species were confiscated by the Department of Wildlife and National Parks in Malaysia, according to TRAFFIC. The animals were believed to be bound for China, to be sold in wild meat restaurants. Most are listed in CITES (the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) which prohibits or restricts such trade.

Malaysia is home to a vast array of amazing wildlife. However, illegal hunting and trade poses a threat to Malaysias natural diversity.

Chris S. Shepherd[4]
A November 2008 report from biologist and author Sally Kneidel, PhD, documented numerous wildlife species for sale in informal markets along the Amazon River, including wild-caught marmosets sold for as little as $1.60 (5 Peruvian soles).[5] Many Amazon species, including peccaries, agoutis, turtles, turtle eggs, anacondas, armadillos, etc., are sold primarily as food. Others in these informal markets, such as monkeys and parrots, are destined for the pet trade, often smuggled into the United States. Still other Amazon species are popular ingredients in traditional medicines sold in local markets. The medicinal value of animal parts is based largely on superstition.[citation needed]
Religion[edit]
Many animal species have spiritual significance in different cultures around the world, and they and their products may be used as sacred objects in religious rituals. For example, eagles, hawks and their feathers have great cultural and spiritual value to Native Americans as religious objects. In Hinduism the cow is regarded sacred.[6]
Muslims conduct sacrifices on Eid-ul-Adha to commemorate the sacrificial spirit of Ibrahim [Abraham] in love of God. Camels, sheep, goats, and cows may be offered as sacrifice during the three days of Eid.[7]
Tourism[edit]
Many nations have established their tourism sector around their natural wildlife. South Africa has, for example, many opportunities for tourists to see the country's wildlife in its national parks, such as the Kruger Park. In South India the Periar Wildlife Sanctuary, Bandipur National Park and Mudamalai Wildlife Sanctuary are situated around and in forests. India is home to many national parks and wildlife sanctuaries showing the diversity of its wildlife, much of its unique fauna, and excels in the range. There are 89 national parks, 13 bio reserves and more than 400 wildlife sanctuaries across India which are the best places to go to see tigers, lions, elephants, rhinoceros, birds, and other wildlife which reflect the importance that the country places on nature and wildlife conservation.
Destruction[edit]
Map of early human migrations, according to mitochondrial population genetics. Numbers are millennia before the present.
This subsection focuses on anthropogenic forms of wildlife destruction.
Exploitation of wild populations has been a characteristic of modern man since our exodus from Africa 130,000  70,000 years ago. The rate of extinctions of entire species of plants and animals across the planet has been so high in the last few hundred years it is widely believed that we are in the sixth great extinction event on this planet; the Holocene Mass Extinction.
Destruction of wildlife does not always lead to an extinction of the species in question, however, the dramatic loss of entire species across Earth dominates any review of wildlife destruction as extinction is the level of damage to a wild population from which there is no return.[clarification needed]
The four most general reasons that lead to destruction of wildlife include overkill, habitat destruction and fragmentation, impact of introduced species and chains of extinction.[8]
Overkill[edit]
Wildlife is an invaluable treasure but it is being exploited due to illegal trade of many of its species.Overkill happens whenever hunting occurs at rates greater than the reproductive capacity of the population is being exploited. The effects of this are often noticed much more dramatically in slow growing populations such as many larger species of fish. Initially when a portion of a wild population is hunted, an increased availability of resources (food, etc.) is experienced increasing growth and reproduction as density dependent inhibition is lowered. Hunting, fishing and so on, has lowered the competition between members of a population. However, if this hunting continues at rate greater than the rate at which new members of the population can reach breeding age and produce more young, the population will begin to decrease in numbers.[9]
Populations that are confined to islands, whether literal islands or just areas of habitat that are effectively an island for the species concerned, have also been observed to be at greater risk of dramatic population declines following unsustainable hunting.
Habitat destruction and fragmentation[edit]
Main articles: Habitat destruction and Habitat fragmentation
Deforestation and increased road-building in the Amazon Rainforest are a significant concern because of increased human encroachment upon wild areas, increased resource extraction and further threats to biodiversity.
The habitat of any given species is considered its preferred area or territory. Many processes associated with human habitation of an area cause loss of this area and decrease the carrying capacity of the land for that species. In many cases these changes in land use cause a patchy break-up of the wild landscape. Agricultural land frequently displays this type of extremely fragmented, or relictual, habitat. Farms sprawl across the landscape with patches of uncleared woodland or forest dotted in-between occasional paddocks.
Examples of habitat destruction include grazing of bushland by farmed animals, changes to natural fire regimes, forest clearing for timber production and wetland draining for city expansion.
Impact of introduced species[edit]
Mice, cats, rabbits, dandelions and poison ivy are all examples of species that have become invasive threats to wild species in various parts of the world[citation needed]. Frequently species that are uncommon in their home range become out-of-control invasions in distant but similar climates. The reasons for this have not always been clear and Charles Darwin felt it was unlikely that exotic species would ever be able to grow abundantly in a place in which they had not evolved. The reality is that the vast majority of species exposed to a new habitat do not reproduce successfully. Occasionally, however, some populations do take hold and after a period of acclimation can increase in numbers significantly, having destructive effects on many elements of the native environment of which they have become part.
Chains of extinction[edit]
This final group is one of secondary effects. All wild populations of living things have many complex intertwining links with other living things around them. Large herbivorous animals such as the hippopotamus have populations of insectivorous birds that feed off the many parasitic insects that grow on the hippo. Should the hippo die out, so too will these groups of birds, leading to further destruction as other species dependent on the birds are affected. Also referred to as a domino effect, this series of chain reactions is by far the most destructive process that can occur in any ecological community.
Another example is the black drongos and the cattle egrets found in India. These birds feed on insects on the back of cattle, which helps to keep them disease-free. Destroying the nesting habitats of these birds would cause a decrease in the cattle population because of the spread of insect-borne diseases.
Media[edit]
The Douglas Squirrel (Tamiasciurus douglasii) is an example of wildlife.
Wildlife has long been a common subject for educational television shows. National Geographic specials appeared on CBS beginning in 1965, later moving to ABC and then PBS. In 1963, NBC debuted Wild Kingdom, a popular program featuring zoologist Marlin Perkins as host.[10] The BBC natural history unit in the UK was a similar pioneer, the first wildlife series LOOK presented by Sir Peter Scott, was a studio-based show, with filmed inserts. It was in this series that David Attenborough first made his appearance which led to the series Zoo Quest during which he and cameraman Charles Lagus went to many exotic places looking for and filming[11] elusive wildlifenotably the Komodo dragon in Indonesia and lemurs in Madagascar. Since 1984, the Discovery Channel and its spin off Animal Planet in the US have dominated the market for shows about wildlife on cable television, while on PBS the NATURE strand made by WNET-13 in New York and NOVA by WGBH in Boston are notable. See also Nature documentary. Wildlife television is now a multimillion-dollar industry with specialist documentary film-makers in many countries including UK, US, New Zealand NHNZ, Australia, Austria, Germany, Japan, and Canada. There are many magazines which cover wildlife including National Wildlife Magazine, Birds & Blooms, Birding (magazine), and Ranger Rick (for children).
See also[edit]
Animals portal
Environment portal
Ecology portal
Earth sciences portal
Biology portal
Sustainable development portal
This "see also" section may contain an excessive number of suggestions. Please ensure that only the most relevant links are given, that they are not red links, and that any links are not already in this article. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)
Biodiversity
Conservation biology
Do not feed the animals
Ecology
Endangered species
European Wildlife
Ex-situ conservation
Gene pool
Genetic erosion
Genetic pollution
In-situ conservation
National Wildlife Federation
Natural environment
Nature
Nature preserve
Ornithology
United States Fish and Wildlife Service
Wildcrafting
Wildlife Conservation Society
Wildlife corridor
Wildlife management
The Wildlife Society
Wildness
World Wide Fund for Nature
World Wildlife Day
References[edit]
^ Usher, M. B. (1986). Wildlife conservation evaluation: attributes, criteria and values. London, New York: Chapman and Hall. ISBN978-94-010-8315-7.
^ whatis.htm "What Is Wildlife?" Check |url= value (help). IHEA. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
^ http://www.wsj.com/articles/report-wildlife-numbers-drop-by-half-since-1970-1412085197
^ Shepherd, Chris R.; Thomas, R. (12 November 2008). "Huge haul of dead owls and live lizards in Peninsular Malaysia". Traffic. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
^ Veggie Revolution: Monkeys and parrots pouring from the jungle[self-published source?]
^ Blange, Claude (2004). "The Significance of the Eagle to the Indians". The Quebec History Encyclopedia. Marianopolis College. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
^ "Eid Al-Adha 2014: Muslims Observe The Feast Of Sacrifice". Huffington Post. Retrieved 3 March 2015.
^ Diamond, J. M. (1989). Overview of recent extinctions. Conservation for the Twenty-first Century. D. Western and M. Pearl, New York, Oxford University Press: 37-41.
^ "Critical Species". Conservation and Wildlife. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
^ "A Brief History of Mutual of Omaha's Wild Kingdom". Mutual of Omaha Insurance Company. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
^ "Charles Lagus BSC.". Wild Film History. Retrieved 14 July 2012.
v
t
e
Natural resources
Air
Pollution/ quality
Ambient standards (USA)
Index
Indoor
developing nations
Law
Clean Air Act (USA)
Ozone depletion
Emissions
Airshed
Trading
Deforestation (REDD)
Energy
Law
Resources
Fossil fuels(peak oil)
Geothermal
Nuclear
Solar
sunlight
shade
Tidal
Wave
Wind
Land
Arable
peak farmland
Degradation
Law
property
Management
habitat conservation
Minerals
mining
law
sand
peak
rights
Soil
conservation
fertility
health
resilience
Use
planning
reserve
Life
Biodiversity
Bioprospecting
Biosphere
Bushfood
Bushmeat
Fisheries
law
management
Food
Forests
genetic resources
law
management
Game
law
Gene bank
Herbalist plants
Marine conservation
Non-timber forest products
Rangeland
Seed bank
Wildlife
conservation
management
Wood
Water
Types/ location
Aquifer
storage and recovery
Drinking
Fresh
Groundwater
pollution
recharge
remediation
Hydrosphere
Ice
bergs
glacial
polar
Irrigation
Rain
harvesting
Stormwater
Surface water
Wastewater
reclaimed
Aspects
Desalination
Floods
Law
Leaching
Sanitation
Conflict
Conservation
Pollution
Privatization
Quality
Right
Resources
management
policy
Related
Common land
common-pool
enclosure
global
tragedy theory
Economics
ecological
Ecosystem services
Exploitation
overexploitation
Management
adaptive
Natural capital
accounting
Nature reserve
Systems ecology
Urban ecology
Wilderness
Resource
Conflict (perpetuation)
Curse
Depletion
Extraction
Nationalism
Renewable/ Non-renewable
Portals
Agriculture and agronomy
Energy
Environment
Fishing
Forestry
Mining
Water
Wetlands
Category
agencies
law
management
ministries
organizations
Colleges
Natural resources
Authority control
NDL: 00574240
NewPP limit report
Parsed by mw1171
Cached time: 20161120180238
Cache expiry: 2592000
Dynamic content: false
CPU time usage: 0.288 seconds
Real time usage: 0.386 seconds
Preprocessor visited node count: 1725/1000000
Preprocessor generated node count: 0/1500000
Postexpand include size: 71870/2097152 bytes
Template argument size: 3137/2097152 bytes
Highest expansion depth: 12/40
Expensive parser function count: 7/500
Lua time usage: 0.135/10.000 seconds
Lua memory usage: 4.67 MB/50 MB
Transclusion expansion time report (%,ms,calls,template)
100.00%
293.346
1 - -total
26.61%
78.050
1 - Template:Reflist
23.00%
67.456
4 - Template:Fix
20.78%
60.953
3 - Template:Citation_needed
14.45%
42.375
5 - Template:Delink
12.16%
35.664
4 - Template:Navbox
10.35%
30.374
9 - Template:Category_handler
9.97%
29.237
1 - Template:Natural_resources
9.39%
27.531
1 - Template:Cite_book
8.19%
24.030
7 - Template:Cite_web
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:144219-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161120180238 and revision id 749658647
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Wildlife&oldid=749658647"
Categories: WildlifeHidden categories: Pages with URL errorsAccuracy disputes from July 2010All articles with unsourced statementsArticles with unsourced statements from February 2007Articles with attributed pull quotesArticles with unsourced statements from November 2015Wikipedia articles needing clarification from July 2012Articles with unsourced statements from June 2009Articles with excessive see also sections from August 2013