Zeropopulationgrowth
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to:					navigation, 					search
function mfTempOpenSection(id){var block=document.getElementById("mf-section-"+id);block.className+=" open-block";block.previousSibling.className+=" open-block";}For other uses, see Zero population growth (disambiguation).
Zero population growth, sometimes abbreviated ZPG (also called the replacement level of fertility),[1] is a condition of demographic balance where the number of people in a specified population neither grows nor declines, considered as a social aim by some.[2] According to some, zero population growth, perhaps after stabilizing at some optimum population, is the ideal towards which countries and the whole world should aspire in the interests of accomplishing long-term environmental sustainability.[3] What it means by the number of people neither grows nor declines is that births plus in-migrants equal deaths plus out-migrants.[4]
Contents
1 History
2 Effects
3 How ZPG can be achieved
4 In China
5 In Europe
6 In Japan
7 See also
8 References
9 External links
History[edit]
A loosely defined goal of ZPG is to match the replacement fertility rate, which is the average number of children per woman which would hold the population constant. This replacement fertility will depend on mortality rates and the sex ratio at birth, and varies from around 2.1 in developed countries to over 3.0 in some developing countries.[5]
The American sociologist and demographer Kingsley Davis is credited with coining the term[6][7] but it was used earlier by George Stolnitz, who stated that the concept of a stationary population dated back to 1693.[8] A mathematical description was given by James Mirrlees.[9]
In the late 1960s ZPG became a prominent political movement in the U.S. and parts of Europe, with strong links to environmentalism and feminism. Yale University was a stronghold of the ZPG activists who believed that a constantly increasing population is responsible for many of our problems: pollution, violence, loss of values and of individual privacy.[10] Founding fathers of the movement were Paul Ehrlich, author of The Population Bomb, Richard Bowers, a Connecticut lawyer, and Professor Charles Lee Remington.[11] Ehrlich stated: The mother of the year should be a sterilized woman with two adopted children.
Effects[edit]
In the long term, zero population growth can be achieved when the birth rate of a population equals the death rate, i.e. fertility is at replacement level and birth and death rates are stable, a condition also called demographic equilibrium. Unstable rates can lead to drastic changes in population levels. This analysis is valid for the planet as whole, but not necessarily for a region or country as it ignores migration. A population that has been growing in the past will have a higher proportion of young people. As it is younger people who have children, there is large time lag between the point at which the fertility rate (mean total number of children each woman has during her childbearing years) falls to the replacement level (the fertility rate which would result in equal birth and death rates for a population at equilibrium) and the point at which the population stops rising.[12] The reason for this is that even though the fertility rate has dropped to replacement level, people already within a population continue to live for some time. Therefore, equilibrium, with a static population, will not be reached until the first "replacement level" birth cohorts reach old age and die. The related calculations are complex because the population's overall death rate can vary over time, and mortality also varies with age (being highest among the old).
Conversely, with fertility below replacement, a large elderly generation eventually results (as in an aging baby boom); but since that generation failed to replace itself during its fertile years, a subsequent population bust, or decrease in population, will occur when the older generation dies off. This effect has been termed birth dearth. In addition, if a country's fertility is at replacement level, and has been that way for at least several decades (to stabilize its age distribution), then that country's population could still experience coincident growth due to continuously increasing life expectancy, even though the population growth is likely to be smaller than it would be from natural population increase.
Zero population growth is often a goal of demographic planners and environmentalists who believe that reducing population growth is essential for the health of the ecosystem. Preserving cultural traditions and ethnic diversity is a factor for not allowing human populations levels or rates to fall too low. Achieving ZPG is difficult because a country's population growth is often determined by economic factors, incidence of poverty, natural disasters, disease, etc.
However, even if there is zero population growth, there may be changes in demographics of great importance to economic factors, such as changes in age distribution.
How ZPG can be achieved[edit]
Number of demographic experts have suggested a few ways to reach zero population growth.
Biologist Alan D. Thornhill and Author Daniel Quinn argue that human population growth is a function of the human food supply[13] and that human population growth can only be achieved by an expanded food supply to support the growing population. In 1998, they produced a video entitled "Food Production and Human Population Growth" where they explain the theory and answer audience questions.
Albert Bartlett, an emeritus professor of physics at University of Colorado at Boulder in his lifetime, suggested that the population have following choices to be at ZPG:
1. Voluntarily limit births and immigration to achieve zero population growth;
2. Continue on the present path until our population is so large that draconian measures become necessary to stop the growth of population;
3. Do nothing and let nature stop the growth through disease, starvation, war and pestilence. If humans do not solve the problem, nature will.[14]
Similarly, Jason Brent, another demographic expert, argues that there are three to achieve zero population growth. His argument is as follows:
1. By war, with or without weapons of mass destruction, starvation, disease, rape, murder, ethnic cleansing, concentration camps, and other horrors beyond the imagination, when humanity has exceeded the carrying capacity of the Earth.
2. By the voluntary action of all of humanity prior to the human population exceeding the carrying capacity of the Earth. If any group or even if a single-family failed to control its population the entire program would fail.
3. By coercive population control prior to the human population exceeding the carrying capacity of the Earth.[15]
In China[edit]
China is the largest country by population in the world, being home to some 1.3 billion people. China is expected to witness a zero population growth rate by 2030. China's population growth has slowed since the beginning of this century. This was mostly the result of China's economic growth and increasing living standards which led to the decline. However, many demographers also credit China's family planning policy, which was formulated in the early 1970s, encourages late marriages, late childbearing, and the use of contraceptives, and since 1980 has limited most urban couples to one child and most rural couples to two children. According to government projections, the work-age population will then drop to 870 million. It was said, in 2009, that the Chinese government was hoping to see zero population growth in the future[16] but, in November 2013, a relaxation of the one-child policy was announced amid unpopularity, reduced labour pool and support for an ageing population.[17]
In Europe[edit]
Main article: Aging of Europe
In Japan[edit]
Main article: Aging of Japan
See also[edit]
Birth credit
Demographic transitionZero population growth is achieved when the birth rate of a population equals in a situation where net migration is also zero
Georgia Guidestones
List of population concern organizations
Overpopulationwhen an organism's numbers exceed the carrying capacity of its habitat.
Pledge two or fewer (UK family limitation campaign)
Steady state economy
Z.P.G.A science-fiction movie concerning the topic of zero population growth.
Zero growth
References[edit]
^ Zero Population Growth Organizanion. "Zero Population Growth." BookRags Staff. N.p., 2005. Web. 7 Oct. 2009. <http://www.bookrags.com/research/zero-population-growth-enve-02/>
^ Kingsley Davis (1973) "Zero population growth: the goal and the means" in The No-Growth Society, Mancur Olson & Hans H. Landsberg, eds. New York: Norton
^ Last, John M. "Zero Population Growth." Healthline. N.p., 2002. Web. 5 Oct. 2009. <"Archived copy". Archived from the original on July 22, 2011. Retrieved October 7, 2009.>.
^ Haupt, Arthur, and Thomas Kane (1991) "The Population Reference Bureau's Population Handbook", 3d ed. Washington, D.C.: Population Reference Bureau
^ Espenshade, Thomas J.; Guzman, Juan Carlos and Westoff, Charles F. "The Surprising Global Variation in Replacement Fertility", Population Research and Policy Review, Vol.22, No. 5-6, Dec. 2003, pp. 575-583.
^ Davis, Kingsley (1967). "Population policy: Will current programs succeed?". Science. 158 (3802): 730739. doi:10.1126/science.158.3802.730. PMID6069101.
^ Kingsley Davis Obituary
^ Stolnitz, George J. (1955). "A Century of International Mortality Trends_ I". Population Studies. Population Investigation Committee. 9 (1): 2455. doi:10.2307/2172340. JSTOR2172340.
^ Mirrlees, J. A. (1967). "Optimum Growth When Technology is Changing". The Review of Economic Studies. The Review of Economic Studies Ltd. 34 (1): 95124. doi:10.2307/2296573. JSTOR2296573.
^ ZPG  A New Movement Challenges the U.S. to Stop Growing, LIFE magazine, April 27, 1970, page 12ff
^ http://www.populationconnection.org/us/30-years-of-zpg/
^ http://www.ditext.com/ehrlich/3.html
^ Hoffenberg, Ruseell; Pimentel (March 2001). "Human Population Numbers as a Function of Food Supply". Environment, Development and Sustainability. Kluwer Academic Publishers. doi:10.1023/A:1011463231976. Retrieved 12 December 2015.
^ Bartlett, Albert A. & Lytwak, Edward P. Zero Growth of the Population of the United States. (http://www.albartlett.org/articles/ee_zero_growth_population_us_1995.pdf), Population and Environment, Vol.16, Issue 5, May. 1995, pp 415-428
^ Wooldbridge, Frosty (27 Feb 2013). Zero population growth: only way out of world population overload (http://churchandstate.org.uk/2013/03/zero-population-growth-only-way-out/).[permanent dead link] Church and State, Retrieved 2015-04-07.
^ Xiang, Zhang (21 July 2009). "China expected to see zero population growth by 2030: expert". China View. Retrieved 2010-03-01.
^ "China reforms: One-child policy to be relaxed". BBC News. 15 November 2013. Retrieved 2014-08-25.
External links[edit]
Population Connection
Enviro, Population Movements Merge Goals for Healthier Planet
World Watch Institute
Northwest Environment Watch
Center for Environment and PopulationScience, Policy, and Public Education on Population and the Environment]
v
t
e
Human impact on the environment
General
Anthropocene
Environmental issues
Human impact
Impact assessment
List of issues
Planetary boundaries
Causes
Agriculture
fishing
irrigation
meat production
palm oil
Energy industry
biodiesel
coal
electricity generation
nuclear power
oil shale
petroleum
reservoirs
wind power
Manufacturing
cleaning agents
concrete
nanotechnology
paint
paper
pesticides
pharmaceuticals and personal care
Transport
aviation
roads
shipping
Other
land use
mining
genetic pollution
human overpopulation
overexploitation
particulates
pollution
war
Effects
Biodiversity threats
Climate change
Deforestation
Desertification
Ecocide
Erosion
Coral reefs
Freshwater cycle
Global warming
Habitat destruction
Holocene extinction
Nitrogen cycle
Land degradation
Land surface effects on climate
Phosphorus cycle
Ocean acidification
Ozone depletion
Runaway climate change
Mitigation
Birth control
Cleaner production
Climate change mitigation
Climate engineering
Ecological engineering
Environmental engineering
Environmental mitigation
Industrial ecology
Mitigation banking
Organic farming
Reforestation
urban
Restoration ecology
Sustainable consumption
Waste minimization
Commons
Category
by country
assessment
mitigation
v
t
e
Human/World population
Major topics
Biocapacity
Optimum population
Overpopulation
Malthusian catastrophe
Population
Population ethics
Population momentum
Sustainable development
Women's reproductive rights
Zero population growth
Biological and
related topics
Family planning
Pledge two or fewer
Human population control
One-child policy
Two-child policy
Population biology
Population decline
Population density
Physiological density
Population dynamics
Population growth
Population model
Population pyramid
Projections of population growth
Human impact on
the environment
Deforestation
Desalination
Desertification
Environmental impact
of agriculture
of aviation
of biodiesel
of concrete
of electricity generation
of the energy industry
of fishing
of irrigation
of mining
of off-roading
of oil shale industry
of palm oil
of paper
of the petroleum industry
of reservoirs
of shipping
of war
Industrialisation
Land degradation
Land reclamation
Overconsumption
Pollution
Quarrying
Urbanization
Loss of green belts
Urban sprawl
Waste
Water scarcity
Overdrafting
Population
ecology
Carrying capacity
Deep ecology
Earth's energy budget
Food security
Habitat destruction
I = P  A  T
Malthusian growth model
Overshoot (population)
World energy consumption
World energy resources
World3 model
Literature
A Modest Proposal
Observations Concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, etc.
An Essay on the Principle of Population
"How Much Land Does a Man Need?"
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth
Population Control: Real Costs, Illusory Benefits
The Limits to Growth
The Population Bomb
The Skeptical Environmentalist
The Ultimate Resource
Publications
Population and Environment
Population and Development Review
Lists
Population and housing censuses by country
Metropolitan areas by population
Population milestone babies
Events and
organizations
7 Billion Actions
International Conference on Population and Development
Population Action International
Population Connection
Population Matters
Population Research Institute
United Nations Population Fund
Voluntary Human Extinction Movement
World Population Day
World Population Foundation
Related topics
Classic Maya collapse
Fertility and intelligence
Green Revolution
Holocene extinction
Migration
Commons
Human overpopulation
Environmental issues with population
Human migration
v
t
e
Lists of countries by population statistics
World population
Current population
Current population (United Nations)
Continental
Asia
Africa
Europe
North America
Oceania
South America
Regional
Americas
Arab world
Caribbean
Commonwealth of Nations
Eurasia
European Union
Islands
Latin America
Middle East
Cities
National capitals
Cities proper
Metropolitan areas
Urban areas
Megacities
Megalopolises
Past population
Past population (United Nations)
Past and future population
1000
1500
1600
1700
1800
1900
1907
1939
2000
2005
2010
Population density
Current density
Current real density based on food growing capacity
Growth indicators
Population growth rate
Natural increase
Birth rate
Mortality rate
Fertility rate
Other
demographics
Age at first marriage
Divorce rate
Domestic citizens
Ethnic and cultural diversity level
Foreign-born population
Immigrant population
Median age
Net migration rate
Number of households
Sex ratio
Urban population
Urbanization
Health
Antiviral medications for pandemic influenza
HIV/AIDS adult prevalence rate
Infant mortality rate
Life expectancy
Percentage suffering from undernourishment
Health expenditure covered by government
Suicide rate
Total health expenditure (PPP) per capita
Body Mass Index (BMI)
Education
and innovation
Bloomberg Innovation Index
Education Index
Graduates in natural sciences and engineering
International Innovation Index
Innovation Union Scoreboard
Literacy rate
Programme for the International Assessment of Adult Competencies
Progress in International Reading Literacy Study
Student skills
Tertiary education attainment
Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
Women's average years in school
World Intellectual Property Indicators
Economic
Development aid given
Foreign aid received
Employment rate
Irrigated land area
Human Development Index
by country
inequality-adjusted
Human Poverty Index
Imports
Income equality
Job security
Labour force
Number of millionaires (US dollars)
Number of billionaires (US dollars)
Percentage living in poverty
Public sector
Sen social welfare function
Unemployment rate
List of international rankings
List of top international rankings by country
Lists by country
v
t
e
Hierarchy of life
Biosphere> Ecosystem> Biocoenosis> Population> Organism> Organ system> Organ> Tissue> Cell> Organelle> Biomolecular complex> Macromolecule> Biomolecule
v
t
e
Globalization
Books
Journals
Lists
Organizations
Outline
Studies
Terms
Writers
Aspects
Alter-globalization
Anti-globalization
Counter-hegemonic globalization
Cultural globalization
Deglobalization
Democratic globalization
Economic globalization
Environmental globalization
Financial globalization
Global citizenship
education
Global governance
Global health
History of globalization
archaic
early modern
Military globalization
Political globalization
Trade globalization
Workforce globalization
Issues
Global
Disease
Digital divide
Labor arbitrage
Population
Warming
Water crisis
Other
Brain drain
reverse
Climate change
Climate justice
Development aid
Economic inequality
Endangered languages
Fair trade
Forced migration
Human rights
Illicit financial flows
Invasive species
Investor-state disputes
New international division of labour
NorthSouth divide
Offshoring
Race to the bottom
pollution havens
Transnational crime
McDonaldization
Westernization
American imperialism
British Empire
World war
Theories
Capital accumulation
Dependency
Development
Earth system
Fiscal localism
Modernization
ecological
history of
Primitive accumulation
Social change
World history
World-systems
Notable
scholars
Samir Amin
Arjun Appadurai
K. Anthony Appiah
Daniele Archibugi
Giovanni Arrighi
Ravi Batra
Jean Baudrillard
Zygmunt Bauman
Ulrich Beck
Walden Bello
Jagdish Bhagwati
Robert Brenner
Manuel Castells
Noam Chomsky
Alfred Crosby
Christopher Chase-Dunn
Andre G. Frank
Thomas Friedman
Anthony Giddens
Peter Gowan
Michael Hardt
David Harvey
David Held
Paul Hirst
Michael Hudson
Paul James
Ibn Khaldun
Naomi Klein
Antonio Negri
Jeffrey Sachs
Saskia Sassen
John R. Saul
Vandana Shiva
Joseph Stiglitz
John Urry
Immanuel Wallerstein
George Ritzer
Portal
Category
Commons
WikiProject
v
t
e
Global catastrophic risks
Future of the Earth
Ultimate fate of the universe
Technological
Grey goo
Kinetic bombardment
Mutual assured destruction
Synthetic intelligence
AI takeover
Technological singularity
Transhumanism
Sociological
Alien invasion
Malthusian catastrophe
New World Order (conspiracy theory)
Nuclear holocaust
Societal collapse
World War III
Ecological
Climate change
Extinction risk from global warming
Runaway climate change
Ice age* Ecocide
Human impact on the environment
Cascade effect
Ecological Debt Day
Overexploitation
Overpopulation
Human overpopulation
Biological
Extinction
Human extinction
Genetic erosion
Genetic pollution
Dysgenics
Pandemic
Biological agent
Transhumanism
Physical
Big Crunch
Big Rip
Coronal mass ejection
Gamma-ray burst
Impact event
Potentially hazardous asteroid
Belief
Eschatology
Buddhist
Christian
Hindu
Islamic
Jewish
Norse
Zoroastrian
2012 phenomenon
Armageddon
Apocalypse
End time
Last Judgment
List of dates predicted for apocalyptic events
Fiction
List of apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction
Categories
Apocalypticism
Future problems
Hazards
Risk analysis
Saved in parser cache with key enwiki:pcache:idhash:557085-0!*!0!!en!4!* and timestamp 20161113155213 and revision id 748562373
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Zero_population_growth&oldid=748562373"
Categories: Human overpopulationPopulation ecologyWorld populationDemographyPopulationEnvironmental controversiesHidden categories: All articles with dead external linksArticles with dead external links from July 2016Articles with permanently dead external links